§ 2009bb–4.
Multistate and local development districts and organizations and Northern Great Plains Inc.
(a)
Definition of multistate and local development district or organization
In this section, the term “multistate and local development district or organization” means an entity—
(1)
that—
(A)
is a planning district in existence on May 13, 2002, that is recognized by the Economic Development Administration of the Department of Commerce; or
(B)
is—
(i)
organized and operated in a manner that ensures broad-based community participation and an effective opportunity for other nonprofit groups to contribute to the development and implementation of programs in the region;
(ii)
a nonprofit incorporated body organized or chartered under the law of the State in which the entity is located;
(iii)
a nonprofit agency or instrumentality of a State or local government;
(iv)
a public organization established before May 13, 2002, under State law for creation of multijurisdictional, area-wide planning organizations;
(v)
a nonprofit agency or instrumentality of a State that was established for the purpose of assisting with multistate cooperation; or
(vi)
a nonprofit association or combination of bodies, agencies, and instrumentalities described in clauses (ii) through (v); and
(2)
that has not, as certified by the Authority (in consultation with the Federal cochairperson or Secretary, as appropriate)—
(A)
inappropriately used Federal grant funds from any Federal source; or
(B)
appointed an officer who, during the period in which another entity inappropriately used Federal grant funds from any Federal source, was an officer of the other entity.
(b)
Grants to multistate, local, or regional development districts and organizations
(1)
In general
The Authority may make grants for administrative expenses under this section to multistate, local, and regional development districts and organizations.
(2)
Conditions for grants
(A)
Maximum amount
The amount of any grant awarded under paragraph (1) shall not exceed 80 percent of the administrative expenses of the multistate, local, or regional development district or organization receiving the grant.
(B)
Maximum period
No grant described in paragraph (1) shall be awarded for a period greater than 3 years.
(3)
Local share
The contributions of a multistate, local, or regional development district or organization for administrative expenses may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including space, equipment, and services.
(c)
Duties
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), a local development district shall operate as a lead organization serving multicounty areas in the region at the local level.
(2)
Designation
The Federal cochairperson may designate an Indian tribe or multijurisdictional organization to serve as a lead organization in such cases as the Federal cochairperson or Secretary, as appropriate, determines appropriate.
(d)
Northern Great Plains Inc.
Northern Great Plains Inc., a nonprofit corporation incorporated in the State of Minnesota to implement the recommendations of the Northern Great Plains Rural Development Commission established by the Northern Great Plains Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2661 note; Public Law 103–318)—
(1)
shall serve as an independent, primary resource for the Authority on issues of concern to the region;
(2)
shall advise the Authority on development of international trade;
(3)
may provide research, education, training, and other support to the Authority; and
(4)
may carry out other activities on its own behalf or on behalf of other entities.
