§ 350.
Inter-European Air Forces Academy
(a)
Operation.—
The Secretary of the Air Force may operate the Air Force education and training facility known as the Inter-European Air Forces Academy (in this section referred to as the “Academy”).
(b)
Purpose.—
The purpose of the Academy shall be to provide military education and training to military personnel of countries that are—
(1)
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(2)
signatories to the Partnership for Peace Framework Documents; or
(3)
(A)
within the United States Africa Command area of responsibility; and
(B)
eligible for assistance under chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.).
(c)
Limitations.—
(1)
Concurrence of secretary of state.—
Military personnel of a country may be provided education and training under this section only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
(2)
Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.—
Education and training may not be provided under this section to the military personnel of any country that is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type of assistance under any other provision of law.
(d)
Supplies and Clothing.—
The Secretary of the Air Force may, under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, provide to a person receiving education and training under this section the following:
(1)
Transportation incident to such education and training.
(2)
Supplies and equipment to be used during such education and training.
(3)
Billeting, food, and health services in connection with the receipt of such education and training.
(e)
Living Allowance.—
The Secretary of the Air Force may pay to a person receiving education and training under this section a living allowance at a rate to be prescribed by the Secretary, taking into account the rates of living allowances authorized for a member of the Armed Forces under similar circumstances.
(f)
Funding.—
Amounts for the operations and maintenance of the Academy, and for the provision of education and training through the Academy, may be paid from funds available for the Air Force for operation and maintenance.
