§ 9517.
Commissioners of the National Education Centers
(a)
Appointment of Commissioners
(1)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), each of the National Education Centers shall be headed by a Commissioner appointed by the Director. In appointing Commissioners, the Director shall seek to promote continuity in leadership of the National Education Centers and shall consider individuals recommended by the Board. The Director may appoint a Commissioner to carry out the functions of a National Education Center without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
(2)
Pay and qualifications
Except as provided in subsection (b), each Commissioner shall—
(A)
receive the rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule; and
(B)
be highly qualified in the field of education research or evaluation.
(3)
Service
Except as provided in subsection (b), each Commissioner shall report to the Director. A Commissioner shall serve for a period of not more than 6 years, except that a Commissioner—
(A)
may be reappointed by the Director; and
(B)
may serve after the expiration of that Commissioner’s term, until a successor has been appointed, for a period not to exceed 1 additional year.
(b)
Appointment of Commissioner for Education Statistics
The National Center for Education Statistics shall be headed by a Commissioner for Education Statistics who shall be appointed by the President and who shall—
(1)
have substantial knowledge of programs assisted by the National Center for Education Statistics;
(2)
receive the rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule; and
(3)
serve for a term of 6 years, with the term to expire every sixth June 21, beginning in 2003.
(c)
Coordination
Each Commissioner of a National Education Center shall coordinate with each of the other Commissioners of the National Education Centers in carrying out such Commissioner’s duties under this subchapter.
(d)
Supervision and approval
Each Commissioner, except the Commissioner for Education Statistics, shall carry out such Commissioner’s duties under this subchapter under the supervision and subject to the approval of the Director.
