§ 9702.
Establishment of Financial Literacy and Education Commission
(a)
In general
There is established a commission to be known as the “Financial Literacy and Education Commission”.
(b)
Purpose
The Commission shall serve to improve the financial literacy and education of persons in the United States through development of a national strategy to promote financial literacy and education.
(c)
Membership
(1)
Composition
The Commission shall be composed of—
(A)
the Secretary of the Treasury;
(B)
the respective head of each of the Federal banking agencies (as defined in section 1813 of title 12), the National Credit Union Administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission, each of the Departments of Education, Agriculture, Defense, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Labor, and Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission, the General Services Administration, the Small Business Administration, the Social Security Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Office of Personnel Management;
(C)
the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and
(D)
at the discretion of the President, not more than 5 individuals appointed by the President from among the administrative heads of any other Federal agencies, departments, or other Federal Government entities, whom the President determines to be engaged in a serious effort to improve financial literacy and education.
(2)
Alternates
Each member of the Commission may designate an alternate if the member is unable to attend a meeting of the Commission. Such alternate shall be an individual who exercises significant decisionmaking authority.
(d)
Chairperson
The Secretary of the Treasury shall serve as the Chairperson. The Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall serve as the Vice Chairman.
(e)
Meetings
The Commission shall hold, at the call of the Chairperson, at least 1 meeting every 4 months. All such meetings shall be open to the public. The Commission may hold, at the call of the Chairperson, such other meetings as the Chairperson sees fit to carry out this chapter.
(f)
Quorum
A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
(g)
Initial meeting
The Commission shall hold its first meeting not later than 60 days after December 4, 2003.
