§ 20143.
Full cost appropriations account structure
(a)
Accounts for Appropriations.—
(1)
Designation of 3 accounts.—
Appropriations for the Administration shall be made in 3 accounts, “Science, Aeronautics, and Education”, “Exploration Systems and Space Operations”, and an account for amounts appropriated for the necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General.
(2)
Reprogramming.—
Within the Exploration Systems and Space Operations account, no more than 10 percent of the funds for a fiscal year for Exploration Systems may be reprogrammed for Space Operations, and no more than 10 percent of the funds for a fiscal year for Space Operations may be reprogrammed for Exploration Systems. This paragraph shall not apply to reprogramming for the purposes described in subsection (b)(2).
(3)
Availability.—
Appropriations shall remain available for 2 fiscal years, unless otherwise specified in law. Each account shall include the planned full costs of Administration activities.
(b)
Transfers Among Accounts.—
(1)
In general.—
To ensure the safe, timely, and successful accomplishment of Administration missions, the Administration may transfer among accounts as necessary, amounts for—
(A)
Federal salaries and benefits;
(B)
training, travel, and awards;
(C)
facility and related costs;
(D)
information technology services;
(E)
publishing services;
(F)
science, engineering, fabricating, and testing services; and
(G)
other administrative services.
(2)
Disaster, act of terrorism, emergency rescue.—
The Administration may also transfer amounts among accounts for the immediate costs of recovering from damage caused by a major disaster (as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122)) or by an act of terrorism, or for the immediate costs associated with an emergency rescue of astronauts.
(c)
Transfer of Unexpired Balances.—
The unexpired balances of prior appropriations to the Administration for activities authorized under this chapter may be transferred to the new account established for such activity in subsection (a). Balances so transferred may be merged with funds in the newly established account and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund under the same terms and conditions.
