§ 2291–4.
Official immunity for authorized employees and agents of United States and foreign countries engaged in interdiction of aircraft used in illicit drug trafficking
(a)
Employees and agents of foreign countries
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, it shall not be unlawful for authorized employees or agents of a foreign country (including members of the armed forces of that country) to interdict or attempt to interdict an aircraft in that country’s territory or airspace if—
(1)
that aircraft is reasonably suspected to be primarily engaged in illicit drug trafficking; and
(2)
the President of the United States has, during the 12-month period ending on the date of the interdiction, certified to Congress with respect to that country that—
(A)
interdiction is necessary because of the extraordinary threat posed by illicit drug trafficking to the national security of that country; and
(B)
the country has appropriate procedures in place to protect against innocent loss of life in the air and on the ground in connection with interdiction, which shall at a minimum include effective means to identify and warn an aircraft before the use of force directed against the aircraft.
(b)
Employees and agents of United States
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, it shall not be unlawful for authorized employees or agents of the United States (including members of the Armed Forces of the United States) to provide assistance for the interdiction actions of foreign countries authorized under subsection (a). The provision of such assistance shall not give rise to any civil action seeking money damages or any other form of relief against the United States or its employees or agents (including members of the Armed Forces of the United States).
(c)
Annual report
(1)
Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than February 1 each year, the President shall submit to Congress a report on the assistance provided under subsection (b) during the preceding calendar year. Each report shall include for the calendar year covered by such report the following:
(A)
A list specifying each country for which a certification referred to in subsection (a)(2) was in effect for purposes of that subsection during any portion of such calendar year, including the nature of the illicit drug trafficking threat to each such country.
(B)
A detailed explanation of the procedures referred to in subsection (a)(2)(B) in effect for each country listed under subparagraph (A), including any training and other mechanisms in place to ensure adherence to such procedures.
(C)
A complete description of any assistance provided under subsection (b).
(D)
A summary description of the aircraft interception activity for which the United States Government provided any form of assistance under subsection (b).
(2)
In the case of a report required to be submitted under paragraph (1) to the congressional intelligence committees (as defined in section 3003 of title 50), the submittal date for such report shall be as provided in section 3106 of title 50.
(3)
Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Definitions
For purposes of this section:
(1)
The terms “interdict” and “interdiction”, with respect to an aircraft, mean to damage, render inoperative, or destroy the aircraft.
(2)
The term “illicit drug trafficking” means illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and other controlled substances, as such activities are described by any international narcotics control agreement to which the United States is a signatory, or by the domestic law of the country in whose territory or airspace the interdiction is occurring.
(3)
The term “assistance” includes operational, training, intelligence, logistical, technical, and administrative assistance.
