§ 9224.
Procurement sanctions
(a)
In general
Except as provided in this section, the head of an executive agency may not procure, or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from any person designated under section 9214(a) or (g) of this title.
(b)
Federal Acquisition Regulation
(1)
In general
The Federal Acquisition Regulation issued pursuant to section 1303(a)(1) of title 41 shall be revised to require that each person that is a prospective contractor submit a certification that such person does not engage in any activity described in section 9214(a) or (g) of this title.
(2)
Applicability
The revision required under paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to contracts for which solicitations are issued on or after the date that is 90 days after February 18, 2016.
(c)
Remedies
(1)
Inclusion on list
The Administrator of General Services shall include, on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs maintained by the Administrator under part 9 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, each person that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment or suspension by the head of an executive agency on the basis of a determination of a false certification under subsection (b).
(2)
Contract termination; suspension
If the head of an executive agency determines that a person has submitted a false certification under subsection (b) after the date on which the Federal Acquisition Regulation is revised to implement the requirements of this section, the head of such executive agency shall—
(A)
terminate any contract with such person; and
(B)
debar or suspend such person from eligibility for Federal contracts for a period of not longer than 2 years.
(3)
Applicable procedures
Any debarment or suspension under paragraph (2)(B) shall be subject to the procedures that apply to debarment and suspension under subpart 9.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(d)
Clarification regarding certain products
The remedies specified in subsection (c) shall not apply with respect to the procurement of any eligible product (as defined in section 2518(4) of title 19 of any foreign country or instrumentality designated under section 2511(b) of title 19.
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection may be construed to limit the use of other remedies available to the head of an executive agency or any other official of the Federal Government on the basis of a determination of a false certification under subsection (b).
(f)
Executive agency defined
In this section, the term “executive agency” has the meaning given such term in section 133 of title 41.
