§ 9528.
Sanctions with respect to the transfer of arms and related materiel to Syria
(a)
Imposition of sanctions
(1)
In general
The President shall impose on a foreign person the sanctions described in subsection (b) if the President determines that such foreign person has, on or after August 2, 2017, knowingly exported, transferred, or otherwise provided to Syria significant financial, material, or technological support that contributes materially to the ability of the Government of Syria to—
(A)
acquire or develop chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons or related technologies;
(B)
acquire or develop ballistic or cruise missile capabilities;
(C)
acquire or develop destabilizing numbers and types of advanced conventional weapons;
(D)
acquire significant defense articles, defense services, or defense information (as such terms are defined under the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.)); or
(E)
acquire items designated by the President for purposes of the United States Munitions List under section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
(2)
Applicability to other foreign persons
The sanctions described in subsection (b) shall also be imposed on any foreign person that—
(A)
is a successor entity to a foreign person described in paragraph (1); or
(B)
is owned or controlled by, or has acted for or on behalf of, a foreign person described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Sanctions described
The sanctions to be imposed on a foreign person described in subsection (a) are the following:
(1)
Blocking of property
The President shall exercise all powers granted by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (except that the requirements of section 202 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply) to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in property of the foreign person if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.
(2)
Aliens ineligible for visas, admission, or parole
(A)
Exclusion from the United States
If the foreign person is an individual, the Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, the foreign person.
(B)
Current visas revoked
(i)
In general
The issuing consular officer, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of such Secretaries) shall revoke any visa or other entry documentation issued to the foreign person regardless of when issued.
(ii)
Effect of revocation
A revocation under clause (i) shall take effect immediately and shall automatically cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the possession of the foreign person.
(c)
Waiver
Subject to section 9511 of this title, the President may waive the application of sanctions under subsection (b) with respect to a person if the President determines that such a waiver is in the national security interest of the United States.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Financial, material, or technological support
The term “financial, material, or technological support” has the meaning given such term in section 542.304 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
(2)
Foreign person
The term “foreign person” has the meaning given such term in section 594.304 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
(3)
Syria
The term “Syria” has the meaning given such term in section 542.316 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
