§ 9601.
Definitions
In this chapter:
(1)
Advancing income country
The term “advancing income country”, with respect to a fiscal year for the Corporation, means a country the gross national income per capita of which at the start of such fiscal year is—
(A)
greater than the World Bank threshold for initiating the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development graduation process; and
(B)
is equal to or less than the per capita income threshold for classification as a high-income economy (as defined by the World Bank).
(2)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(3)
Country of concern
The term “country of concern” means any of the following countries:
(A)
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
(B)
The Republic of Cuba.
(C)
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
(D)
The Islamic Republic of Iran.
(E)
The People’s Republic of China.
(F)
The Russian Federation.
(G)
The Republic of Belarus.
(4)
High-income country
The term “high-income country”, with respect to a fiscal year for the Corporation, means a country with a high-income economy (as defined by the World Bank) at the start of such fiscal year but does not include any wealthy country except to the extent investments in such wealthy country are permitted pursuant to section 9612(f) of this title.
(5)
Less developed country
The term “less developed country”, with respect to a fiscal year for the Corporation, means a country the gross national income per capita of which at the start of such fiscal year is equal to or less than the World Bank threshold for initiating the International Bank for Reconstruction Development graduation process.
(6)
Predecessor authority
The term “predecessor authority” means authorities repealed by subchapter VI of this chapter.
(7)
Qualifying sovereign entity
The term “qualifying sovereign entity” means—
(A)
any agency or instrumentality of a foreign state (as defined in section 1603 of title 28) that has a purpose that is similar to the purpose of the Corporation as described in section 9612(b) of this title; or
(B)
any international financial institution (as defined in section 262r(c) of this title).
(8)
Wealthy country
The term “wealthy country”, with respect to a fiscal year for the Corporation—
(A)
means a country that is among the top 20 countries with the highest gross domestic product per capita at purchasing power parity, as calculated by the World Bank; and
(B)
does not include members of the ‘Five Eyes’ alliance or the overseas territories of the 20 countries referred to in subparagraph (A).
