§ 9682.
Reorganization plan
(a)
Submission of plan
(1)
In general
Not later than 120 days after October 5, 2018, the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a reorganization plan regarding the following:
(A)
The transfer of agencies, personnel, assets, and obligations to the Corporation pursuant to this subchapter.
(B)
Any consolidation, reorganization, or streamlining of agencies transferred to the Corporation pursuant to this subchapter.
(C)
Any efficiencies or cost savings achieved or additional costs incurred as a result of the transfer of agencies, personnel, assets, and obligations to the Corporation pursuant to this subchapter, including reductions in unnecessary or duplicative operations, assets, and personnel.
(2)
Consultation
Not later than 15 days before the date on which the plan is transmitted pursuant to this subsection, the President shall consult with the appropriate congressional committees on such plan.
(b)
Plan elements
The plan transmitted under subsection (a) shall contain, consistent with this chapter, such elements as the President deems appropriate, including the following:
(1)
Identification of any functions of agencies transferred to the Corporation pursuant to this subchapter that will not be transferred to the Corporation under the plan.
(2)
Specification of the steps to be taken to organize the Corporation, including the delegation or assignment of functions transferred to the Corporation.
(3)
Specification of the funds available to each agency that will be transferred to the Corporation as a result of transfers under the plan.
(4)
Specification of the proposed allocations within the Corporation of unexpended funds transferred in connection with transfers under the plan.
(5)
Specification of any proposed disposition of property, facilities, contracts, records, and other assets and obligations of agencies transferred under the plan.
(6)
Specification of the number of authorized positions and personnel employed before the end of the transition period that will be transferred to the Corporation, including plans to mitigate the impact of such transfers on the United States Agency for International Development.
(c)
Report on coordination
(1)
In general
The transfer of functions authorized by this section may occur only after the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development jointly submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Committee on Foreign Relations and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report in writing that contains the information required by paragraph (2).
(2)
Information required
The information required by this paragraph includes a description in detail of the procedures to be followed after the transfer of functions authorized by this section have occurred to coordinate between the Corporation and the United States Agency for International Development in carrying out the functions so transferred.
(d)
Modification of plan
The President shall consult with the appropriate congressional committees before making any material modification or revision to the plan before the plan becomes effective in accordance with subsection (e).
(e)
Effective date
(1)
In general
The reorganization plan described in this section, including any modifications or revisions of the plan under subsection (c), shall become effective for an agency on the date specified in the plan (or the plan as modified pursuant to subsection (d)), except that such date may not be earlier than 90 days after the date the President has transmitted the reorganization plan to the appropriate congressional committees pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
Statutory construction
Nothing in this subsection may be construed to require the transfer of functions, personnel, records, balances of appropriations, or other assets of an agency on a single date.
