§ 1437aaa–2.
Implementation grants
(a)
Grants
The Secretary is authorized to make implementation grants to applicants for the purpose of carrying out homeownership programs approved under this subchapter.
(b)
Eligible activities
Implementation grants may be used for activities to carry out homeownership programs (including programs for cooperative ownership) that meet the requirements under this subchapter, including the following activities:
(1)
Architectural and engineering work.
(2)
Implementation of the homeownership program, including acquisition of the public housing project from a public housing agency for the purpose of transferring ownership to eligible families in accordance with a homeownership program that meets the requirements under this subchapter.
(3)
Rehabilitation of any public housing project covered by the homeownership program, in accordance with standards established by the Secretary.
(4)
Abatement of lead-based paint hazards, as required by section 4822(a) of this title.
(5)
Administrative costs of the applicant, which may not exceed 15 percent of the amount of assistance provided under this section.
(6)
Development of resident management corporations and resident management councils, but only if the applicant has not received assistance under section 1437aaa–1 of this title for such activities.
(7)
Counseling and training of homebuyers and homeowners under the homeownership program.
(8)
Relocation of tenants who elect to move.
(9)
Any necessary temporary relocation of tenants during rehabilitation.
(10)
Funding of operating expenses and replacement reserves of the project covered by the homeownership program, except that the amount of assistance for operating expenses shall not exceed the amount the project would have received if it had continued to receive such assistance from the Operating Fund, with adjustments comparable to those that would have been made under section 1437g of this title, and except that implementation grants may not be used under this paragraph to fund operating expenses for scattered site public housing acquired under a homeownership program.
(11)
Implementation of a replacement housing plan.
(12)
Legal fees.
(13)
Defraying costs for the ongoing training needs of the recipient that are related to developing and carrying out the homeownership program.
(14)
Economic development activities that promote economic self-sufficiency of homebuyers, residents, and homeowners under the homeownership program.
(c)
Matching funding
(1)
In general
Each recipient shall assure that contributions equal to not less than 25 percent of the grant amount made available under this section, excluding any amounts provided for post-sale operating expenses and replacement housing, shall be provided from non-Federal sources to carry out the homeownership program.
(2)
Form
Such contributions may be in the form of—
(A)
cash contributions from non-Federal resources, which may not include Federal tax expenditures or funds from a grant made under section 5306(b) of this title or section 5306(d) of this title;
(B)
payment of administrative expenses, as defined by the Secretary, from non-Federal resources, including funds from a grant made under section 5306(b) of this title or section 5306(d) of this title;
(C)
the value of taxes, fees, or other charges that are normally and customarily imposed but are waived, foregone, or deferred in a manner that facilitates the implementation of a homeownership program assisted under this subchapter;
(D)
the value of land or other real property as appraised according to procedures acceptable to the Secretary;
(E)
the value of investment in on-site and off-site infrastructure required for a homeownership program assisted under this subchapter; or
(F)
such other in-kind contributions as the Secretary may approve.
Contributions for administrative expenses shall be recognized only up to an amount equal to 7 percent of the total amount of grants made available under this section.
(3)
Reduction of requirement
The Secretary shall reduce the matching requirement for homeownership programs carried out under this section in accordance with the formula established under section 220(d) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act [42 U.S.C. 12750(d)].
(d)
Application
(1)
Form and procedure
An application for an implementation grant shall be submitted by an applicant in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish.
(2)
Minimum requirements
The Secretary shall require that an application contain at a minimum—
(A)
a request for an implementation grant, specifying the amount of the grant requested and its proposed uses;
(B)
if applicable, an application for assistance under section 1437f of this title, which shall specify the proposed uses of such assistance and the period during which the assistance will be needed;
(C)
a description of the qualifications and experience of the applicant in providing housing for low-income families;
(D)
a description of the proposed homeownership program, consistent with section 1437aaa–3 of this title and the other requirements of this subchapter, which shall specify the activities proposed to be carried out and their estimated costs, identifying reasonable schedules for carrying it out, and demonstrating that the program will comply with the affordability requirements under section 1437aaa–3(b) of this title;
(E)
identification and description of the public housing project or projects involved, and a description of the composition of the tenants, including family size and income;
(F)
a description of and commitment for the resources that are expected to be made available to provide the matching funding required under subsection (c) and of other resources that are expected to be made available in support of the homeownership program;
(G)
identification and description of the financing proposed for any (i) rehabilitation and (ii) acquisition (I) of the property, where applicable, by a resident council or other entity for transfer to eligible families, and (II) by eligible families of ownership interests in, or shares representing, units in the project;
(H)
if the applicant is not a public housing agency, the proposed sales price, if any, the basis for such price determination, and terms to the applicant;
(I)
the estimated sales prices, if any, and terms to eligible families;
(J)
any proposed restrictions on the resale of units under a homeownership program;
(K)
identification and description of the entity that will operate and manage the property;
(L)
a certification by the public official responsible for submitting the comprehensive housing affordability strategy under section 105 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act [42 U.S.C. 12705] that the proposed activities are consistent with the approved housing strategy of the State or unit of general local government within which the project is located (or, during the first 12 months after November 28, 1990, that the application is consistent with such other existing State or local housing plan or strategy that the Secretary shall determine to be appropriate); and
(M)
a certification that the applicant will comply with the requirements of the Fair Housing Act [42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.], title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.], section 794 of title 29, and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 [42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.], and will affirmatively further fair housing.
(e)
Selection criteria
The Secretary shall establish selection criteria for a national competition for assistance under this section, which shall include—
(1)
the ability of the applicant to develop and carry out the proposed homeownership program, taking into account the quality of any related ongoing program of the applicant, and the extent of tenant interest in the development of a homeownership program and community support;
(2)
the feasibility of the homeownership program;
(3)
the extent to which current tenants and other eligible families will be able to afford the purchase;
(4)
the quality and viability of the proposed homeownership program, including the viability of the economic self-sufficiency plan;
(5)
the extent to which funds for activities that do not qualify as eligible activities will be provided in support of the homeownership program;
(6)
whether the approved comprehensive housing affordability strategy for the jurisdiction within which the public housing project is located includes the proposed homeownership program as one of the general priorities identified pursuant to section 105(b)(7) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act [42 U.S.C. 12705(b)(7)];
(7)
national geographic diversity among housing for which applicants are selected to receive assistance; and
(8)
the extent to which a sufficient supply of affordable rental housing exists in the locality, so that the implementation of the homeownership program will not reduce the number of such rental units available to residents currently residing in such units or eligible for residency in such units.
(f)
Location within participating jurisdictions
The Secretary may approve applications for grants under this subchapter only for public housing projects located within the boundaries of jurisdictions—
(1)
which are participating jurisdictions under title III of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act; or
(2)
on behalf of which the agency responsible for affordable housing has submitted a housing strategy or plan.
(g)
Approval
The Secretary shall notify each applicant, not later than 6 months after the date of the submission of the application, whether the application is approved or not approved. The Secretary may approve the application for an implementation grant with a statement that the application for the section 8 [42 U.S.C. 1437f] assistance for replacement housing and for residents of the project not purchasing units is conditionally approved, subject to the availability of appropriations in subsequent fiscal years.
