§ 16354.
External technical review of departmental programs
(a)
National energy research and development advisory boards
(1)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish one or more advisory boards to review research, development, demonstration, and commercial application programs of the Department in energy efficiency, renewable energy, nuclear energy, and fossil energy.
(2)
Alternatives
The Secretary may—
(A)
designate an existing advisory board within the Department to fulfill the responsibilities of an advisory board under this section; and
(B)
enter into appropriate arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to establish such an advisory board.
(b)
Use of existing committees
The Secretary shall continue to use the scientific program advisory committees chartered under chapter 10 of title 5 by the Office of Science to oversee research and development programs under that Office.
(c)
Membership
Each advisory board under this section shall consist of persons with appropriate expertise representing a diverse range of interests.
(d)
Meetings and goals
(1)
Meetings
Each advisory board under this section shall meet at least semiannually to review and advise on the progress made by the respective one or more research, development, demonstration, and commercial application programs.
(2)
Goals
The advisory board shall review the measurable cost and performance-based goals for the programs as established under section 16181 of this title, and the progress on meeting the goals.
(e)
Periodic reviews and assessments
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall enter into appropriate arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct periodic reviews and assessments of—
(A)
the research, development, demonstration, and commercial application programs authorized by this Act and amendments made by this Act;
(B)
the measurable cost and performance-based goals for the programs as established under section 16181 of this title, if any; and
(C)
the progress on meeting the goals.
(2)
Timing
The reviews and assessments shall be conducted every 5 years or more often as the Secretary considers necessary.
(3)
Reports
The Secretary shall submit to Congress reports describing the results of all the reviews and assessments.
