§ 1862s–9.
Translational research grants
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
commercialization of federally funded research may benefit society and the economy; and
(2)
not-for-profit organizations support the commercialization of federally funded research by providing useful business and technical expertise to researchers.
(b)
Commercialization promotion
The Director of the Foundation shall continue to award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to eligible entities to promote the commercialization of federally funded research results.
(c)
Use of funds
Activities supported by grants under this section may include—
(1)
identifying Foundation-sponsored research and technologies that have the potential for accelerated commercialization;
(2)
supporting prior or current Foundation-sponsored investigators, institutions of higher education, and non-profit organizations that partner with an institution of higher education in undertaking proof-of-concept work, including development of prototypes of technologies that are derived from Foundation-sponsored research and have potential market value;
(3)
promoting sustainable partnerships between Foundation-funded institutions, industry, and other organizations within academia and the private sector with the purpose of accelerating the transfer of technology;
(4)
developing multi-disciplinary innovation ecosystems which involve and are responsive to specific needs of academia and industry; and
(5)
providing professional development, mentoring, and advice in entrepreneurship, project management, and technology and business development to innovators.
(d)
Eligibility
(1)
In general
The following organizations may be eligible for grants under this section:
(A)
Institutions of higher education.
(B)
Public or nonprofit technology transfer organizations.
(C)
A nonprofit organization that partners with an institution of higher education.
(D)
A consortia of 2 or more of the organizations described under subparagraphs (A) through (C).
(2)
Lead organizations
Any eligible organization under paragraph (1) may apply as a lead organization.
(e)
Applications
An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.
