§ 1862n–9.
Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee
(a)
Establishment
The Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the Department of Energy shall jointly establish an Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Committee”).
(b)
Duties
The Advisory Committee shall—
(1)
assess, and make recommendations regarding, the coordination of astronomy and astrophysics programs of the Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the Department of Energy;
(2)
assess, and make recommendations regarding, the status of the activities of the Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the Department of Energy as they relate to the recommendations contained in the National Research Council’s 2001 report entitled “Astronomy and Astrophysics in the New Millennium”, and the recommendations contained in subsequent National Research Council reports of a similar nature; and
(3)
not later than March 15 of each year, transmit a report to the Director, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Secretary of Energy, the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate on the Advisory Committee’s findings and recommendations under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(c)
Membership
The Advisory Committee shall consist of 13 members, none of whom shall be a Federal employee, including—
(1)
4 members selected by the Director;
(2)
4 members selected by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
(3)
3 members selected by the Secretary of Energy; and
(4)
2 members selected by the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
(d)
Selection process
Initial selections under subsection (c) shall be made within 3 months after December 19, 2002. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as provided in subsection (c).
(e)
Chairperson
The Advisory Committee shall select a chairperson from among its members.
(f)
Coordination
The Advisory Committee shall coordinate with other Federal advisory committees that advise Federal agencies that engage in related research activities.
(g)
Compensation
The members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation, but shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5.
(h)
Meetings
The Advisory Committee shall convene, in person or by electronic means, at least 4 times a year.
(i)
Quorum
A majority of the members serving on the Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting the business of the Advisory Committee.
(j)
Duration
Section 1013 of title 5 shall not apply to the Advisory Committee.
