§ 2000e–4.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(a)
Creation; composition; political representation; appointment; term; vacancies; Chairman and Vice Chairman; duties of Chairman; appointment of personnel; compensation of personnel
There is hereby created a Commission to be known as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which shall be composed of five members, not more than three of whom shall be members of the same political party. Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate for a term of five years. Any individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed only for the unexpired term of the member whom he shall succeed, and all members of the Commission shall continue to serve until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that no such member of the Commission shall continue to serve (1) for more than sixty days when the Congress is in session unless a nomination to fill such vacancy shall have been submitted to the Senate, or (2) after the adjournment sine die of the session of the Senate in which such nomination was submitted. The President shall designate one member to serve as Chairman of the Commission, and one member to serve as Vice Chairman. The Chairman shall be responsible on behalf of the Commission for the administrative operations of the Commission, and, except as provided in subsection (b), shall appoint, in accordance with the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, such officers, agents, attorneys, administrative law judges, and employees as he deems necessary to assist it in the performance of its functions and to fix their compensation in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates: Provided, That assignment, removal, and compensation of administrative law judges shall be in accordance with sections 3105, 3344, 5372, and 7521 of title 5.
(b)
General Counsel; appointment; term; duties; representation by attorneys and Attorney General
(1)
There shall be a General Counsel of the Commission appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a term of four years. The General Counsel shall have responsibility for the conduct of litigation as provided in sections 2000e–5 and 2000e–6 of this title. The General Counsel shall have such other duties as the Commission may prescribe or as may be provided by law and shall concur with the Chairman of the Commission on the appointment and supervision of regional attorneys. The General Counsel of the Commission on the effective date of this Act shall continue in such position and perform the functions specified in this subsection until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(2)
Attorneys appointed under this section may, at the direction of the Commission, appear for and represent the Commission in any case in court, provided that the Attorney General shall conduct all litigation to which the Commission is a party in the Supreme Court pursuant to this subchapter.
(c)
Exercise of powers during vacancy; quorum
A vacancy in the Commission shall not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Commission and three members thereof shall constitute a quorum.
(d)
Seal; judicial notice
The Commission shall have an official seal which shall be judicially noticed.
(e)
Reports to Congress and the President
The Commission shall at the close of each fiscal year report to the Congress and to the President concerning the action it has taken and the moneys it has disbursed. It shall make such further reports on the cause of and means of eliminating discrimination and such recommendations for further legislation as may appear desirable.
(f)
Principal and other offices
The principal office of the Commission shall be in or near the District of Columbia, but it may meet or exercise any or all its powers at any other place. The Commission may establish such regional or State offices as it deems necessary to accomplish the purpose of this subchapter.
(g)
Powers of Commission
The Commission shall have power—
(1)
to cooperate with and, with their consent, utilize regional, State, local, and other agencies, both public and private, and individuals;
(2)
to pay to witnesses whose depositions are taken or who are summoned before the Commission or any of its agents the same witness and mileage fees as are paid to witnesses in the courts of the United States;
(3)
to furnish to persons subject to this subchapter such technical assistance as they may request to further their compliance with this subchapter or an order issued thereunder;
(4)
upon the request of (i) any employer, whose employees or some of them, or (ii) any labor organization, whose members or some of them, refuse or threaten to refuse to cooperate in effectuating the provisions of this subchapter, to assist in such effectuation by conciliation or such other remedial action as is provided by this subchapter;
(5)
to make such technical studies as are appropriate to effectuate the purposes and policies of this subchapter and to make the results of such studies available to the public;
(6)
to intervene in a civil action brought under section 2000e–5 of this title by an aggrieved party against a respondent other than a government, governmental agency or political subdivision.
(h)
Cooperation with other departments and agencies in performance of educational or promotional activities; outreach activities
(1)
The Commission shall, in any of its educational or promotional activities, cooperate with other departments and agencies in the performance of such educational and promotional activities.
(2)
In exercising its powers under this subchapter, the Commission shall carry out educational and outreach activities (including dissemination of information in languages other than English) targeted to—
(A)
individuals who historically have been victims of employment discrimination and have not been equitably served by the Commission; and
(B)
individuals on whose behalf the Commission has authority to enforce any other law prohibiting employment discrimination,
concerning rights and obligations under this subchapter or such law, as the case may be.
(i)
Personnel subject to political activity restrictions
All officers, agents, attorneys, and employees of the Commission shall be subject to the provisions of section 7324 of title 5, notwithstanding any exemption contained in such section.
(j)
Technical Assistance Training Institute
(1)
The Commission shall establish a Technical Assistance Training Institute, through which the Commission shall provide technical assistance and training regarding the laws and regulations enforced by the Commission.
(2)
An employer or other entity covered under this subchapter shall not be excused from compliance with the requirements of this subchapter because of any failure to receive technical assistance under this subsection.
(3)
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1992.
(k)
EEOC Education, Technical Assistance, and Training Revolving Fund
(1)
There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a revolving fund to be known as the “EEOC Education, Technical Assistance, and Training Revolving Fund” (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the “Fund”) and to pay the cost (including administrative and personnel expenses) of providing education, technical assistance, and training relating to laws administered by the Commission. Monies in the Fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation to the Commission for such purposes.
(2)
(A)
The Commission shall charge fees in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph to offset the costs of education, technical assistance, and training provided with monies in the Fund. Such fees for any education, technical assistance, or training—
(i)
shall be imposed on a uniform basis on persons and entities receiving such education, assistance, or training,
(ii)
shall not exceed the cost of providing such education, assistance, and training, and
(iii)
with respect to each person or entity receiving such education, assistance, or training, shall bear a reasonable relationship to the cost of providing such education, assistance, or training to such person or entity.
(B)
Fees received under subparagraph (A) shall be deposited in the Fund by the Commission.
(C)
The Commission shall include in each report made under subsection (e) information with respect to the operation of the Fund, including information, presented in the aggregate, relating to—
(i)
the number of persons and entities to which the Commission provided education, technical assistance, or training with monies in the Fund, in the fiscal year for which such report is prepared,
(ii)
the cost to the Commission to provide such education, technical assistance, or training to such persons and entities, and
(iii)
the amount of any fees received by the Commission from such persons and entities for such education, technical assistance, or training.
(3)
The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest the portion of the Fund not required to satisfy current expenditures from the Fund, as determined by the Commission, in obligations of the United States or obligations guaranteed as to principal by the United States. Investment proceeds shall be deposited in the Fund.
(4)
There is hereby transferred to the Fund $1,000,000 from the Salaries and Expenses appropriation of the Commission.
