§ 247b–18.
Surveillance and research regarding muscular dystrophy
(a)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may award grants and cooperative agreements to public or nonprofit private entities (including health departments of States and political subdivisions of States, and including universities and other educational entities) for the collection, analysis, and reporting of data on Duchenne and other forms of muscular dystrophy. In making such awards, the Secretary may provide direct technical assistance in lieu of cash.
(b)
National muscular dystrophy epidemiology program
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may award grants to public or nonprofit private entities (including health departments of States and political subdivisions of States, and including universities and other educational entities) for the purpose of carrying out epidemiological activities regarding Duchenne and other forms of muscular dystrophies, including collecting and analyzing information on the number, incidence, correlates, and symptoms of cases. In carrying out the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall provide for a national surveillance program and, to the extent possible, ensure that data be representative of all affected populations and shared in a timely manner. In making awards under this subsection, the Secretary may provide direct technical assistance in lieu of cash.
(c)
Coordination with centers of excellence
The Secretary shall ensure that epidemiological information under subsections (a) and (b) is made available to centers of excellence supported under section 283g(b) of this title by the Director of the National Institutes of Health.
(d)
Data
In carrying out this section, the Secretary may ensure that any data on patients that is collected as part of the Muscular Dystrophy STARnet (under a grant under this section) is regularly updated to reflect changes in patient condition over time.
(e)
Reports and study
(1)
Annual report
Not later than 18 months after October 8, 2008, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress a report—
(A)
concerning the activities carried out by MD STARnet site funded under this section during the year for which the report is prepared;
(B)
containing the data collected and findings derived from the MD STARnet sites each fiscal year (as funded under a grant under this section during fiscal years 2008 through 2012); and
(C)
that every 2 years outlines prospective data collection objectives and strategies.
(2)
Tracking health outcomes
The Secretary may provide health outcome data on the health and survival of people with muscular dystrophy.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
