§ 247b–16.
Grants for lead poisoning related activities
(a)
Authority to make grants
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall make grants to States to support public health activities in States and localities where data suggests that at least 5 percent of preschool-age children have an elevated blood lead level through—
(A)
effective, ongoing outreach and community education targeted to families most likely to be at risk for lead poisoning;
(B)
individual family education activities that are designed to reduce ongoing exposures to lead for children with elevated blood lead levels, including through home visits and coordination with other programs designed to identify and treat children at risk for lead poisoning; and
(C)
the development, coordination and implementation of community-based approaches for comprehensive lead poisoning prevention from surveillance to lead hazard control.
(2)
State match
A State is not eligible for a grant under this section unless the State agrees to expend (through State or local funds) $1 for every $2 provided under the grant to carry out the activities described in paragraph (1).
(3)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State shall submit an application to the Secretary in such form and manner and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(b)
Coordination with other children’s programs
A State shall identify in the application for a grant under this section how the State will coordinate operations and activities under the grant with—
(1)
other programs operated in the State that serve children with elevated blood lead levels, including any such programs operated under title V, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 701 et seq., 1396 et seq., 1397aa et seq.]; and
(2)
one or more of the following—
(A)
the child welfare and foster care and adoption assistance programs under parts B and E of title IV of such Act [42 U.S.C. 620 et seq., 670 et seq.];
(B)
the head start program established under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.);
(C)
the program of assistance under the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants and children (WIC) under section 1786 of this title;
(D)
local public and private elementary or secondary schools; or
(E)
public housing agencies, as defined in section 1437a of this title.
(c)
Performance measures
The Secretary shall establish needs indicators and performance measures to evaluate the activities carried out under grants awarded under this section. Such indicators shall be commensurate with national measures of maternal and child health programs and shall be developed in consultation with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.
