§ 280j–2.
Public reporting of performance information
(a)
Development of performance websites
The Secretary shall make available to the public, through standardized Internet websites, performance information summarizing data on quality measures. Such information shall be tailored to respond to the differing needs of hospitals and other institutional health care providers, physicians and other clinicians, patients, consumers, researchers, policymakers, States, and other stakeholders, as the Secretary may specify.
(b)
Information on conditions
The performance information made publicly available on an Internet website, as described in subsection (a), shall include information regarding clinical conditions to the extent such information is available, and the information shall, where appropriate, be provider-specific and sufficiently disaggregated and specific to meet the needs of patients with different clinical conditions.
(c)
Consultation
(1)
In general
In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the entity with a contract under section 1890(a) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395aaa(a)], and other entities, as appropriate, to determine the type of information that is useful to stakeholders and the format that best facilitates use of the reports and of performance reporting Internet websites.
(2)
Consultation with stakeholders
The entity with a contract under section 1890(a) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395aaa(a)] shall convene multi-stakeholder groups, as described in such section, to review the design and format of each Internet website made available under subsection (a) and shall transmit to the Secretary the views of such multi-stakeholder groups with respect to each such design and format.
(d)
Coordination
Where appropriate, the Secretary shall coordinate the manner in which data are presented through Internet websites described in subsection (a) and for public reporting of other quality measures by the Secretary, including such quality measures under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.].
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2010 through 2014.
