§ 285c–4.
Advisory boards
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish in the Institute the National Diabetes Advisory Board, the National Digestive Diseases Advisory Board, and the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Advisory Board (hereafter in this section individually referred to as an “Advisory Board”).
(b)
Membership; ex officio members
Each Advisory Board shall be composed of eighteen appointed members and nonvoting ex officio members as follows:
(1)
The Secretary shall appoint—
(A)
twelve members from individuals who are scientists, physicians, and other health professionals, who are not officers or employees of the United States, and who represent the specialties and disciplines relevant to the diseases with respect to which the Advisory Board is established; and
(B)
six members from the general public who are knowledgeable with respect to such diseases, including at least one member who is a person who has such a disease and one member who is a parent of a person who has such a disease.
Of the appointed members at least five shall by virtue of training or experience be knowledgeable in the fields of health education, nursing, data systems, public information, and community program development.
(2)
(A)
The following shall be ex officio members of each Advisory Board:
(i)
The Assistant Secretary for Health, the Director of NIH, the Director of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, and the Division Director of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for the diseases for which the Board is established (or the designees of such officers).
(ii)
Such other officers and employees of the United States as the Secretary determines necessary for the Advisory Board to carry out its functions.
(B)
In the case of the National Diabetes Advisory Board, the following shall also be ex officio members: The Director of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, the Director of the National Eye Institute, the Director of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (or the designees of such officers).
(c)
Compensation
Members of an Advisory Board who are officers or employees of the Federal Government shall serve as members of the Advisory Board without compensation in addition to that received in their regular public employment. Other members of the Board shall receive compensation at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate in effect for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule for each day (including traveltime) they are engaged in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.
(d)
Term of office; vacancy
The term of office of an appointed member of an Advisory Board is four years, except that no term of office may extend beyond the expiration of the Advisory Board. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall be appointed for the remainder of such term. A member may serve after the expiration of the member’s term until a successor has taken office. If a vacancy occurs in an Advisory Board, the Secretary shall make an appointment to fill the vacancy not later than 90 days from the date the vacancy occurred.
(e)
Chairman
The members of each Advisory Board shall select a chairman from among the appointed members.
(f)
Executive director; professional and clerical staff; administrative support services and facilities
The Secretary shall, after consultation with and consideration of the recommendations of an Advisory Board, provide the Advisory Board with an executive director and one other professional staff member. In addition, the Secretary shall, after consultation with and consideration of the recommendations of the Advisory Board, provide the Advisory Board with such additional professional staff members, such clerical staff members, such services of consultants, such information, and (through contracts or other arrangements) such administrative support services and facilities, as the Secretary determines are necessary for the Advisory Board to carry out its functions.
(g)
Meetings
Each Advisory Board shall meet at the call of the chairman or upon request of the Director of the Institute, but not less often than four times a year.
(h)
Functions of National Diabetes Advisory Board and National Digestive Diseases Advisory Board
The National Diabetes Advisory Board and the National Digestive Diseases Advisory Board shall—
(1)
review and evaluate the implementation of the plan (referred to in section 285c–7 of this title) respecting the diseases with respect to which the Advisory Board was established and periodically update the plan to ensure its continuing relevance;
(2)
for the purpose of assuring the most effective use and organization of resources respecting such diseases, advise and make recommendations to the Congress, the Secretary, the Director of NIH, the Director of the Institute, and the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies for the implementation and revision of such plan; and
(3)
maintain liaison with other advisory bodies related to Federal agencies involved in the implementation of such plan, the coordinating committee for such diseases, and with key non-Federal entities involved in activities affecting the control of such diseases.
(i)
Subcommittees; establishment and membership
In carrying out its functions, each Advisory Board may establish subcommittees, convene workshops and conferences, and collect data. Such subcommittees may be composed of Advisory Board members and nonmember consultants with expertise in the particular area addressed by such subcommittees. The subcommittees may hold such meetings as are necessary to enable them to carry out their activities.
(j)
Termination of predecessor boards; time within which to appoint members
The National Diabetes Advisory Board and the National Digestive Diseases Advisory Board in existence on November 20, 1985, shall terminate upon the appointment of a successor Board under subsection (a). The Secretary shall make appointments to the Advisory Boards established under subsection (a) before the expiration of 90 days after November 20, 1985. The members of the Boards in existence on November 20, 1985, may be appointed, in accordance with subsections (b) and (d), to the Boards established under subsection (a) for diabetes and digestive diseases, except that at least one-half of the members of the National Diabetes Advisory Board in existence on November 20, 1985, shall be appointed to the National Diabetes Advisory Board first established under subsection (a).
