§ 285n–2.
National Alcohol Research Centers; mandatory grant for research of effects of alcohol on elderly
(a)
Designation; procedures applicable for approval of applications
The Secretary acting through the Institute may designate National Alcohol Research Centers for the purpose of interdisciplinary research relating to alcoholism and other biomed­ical, behavioral, and social issues related to alcoholism and alcohol abuse. No entity may be designated as a Center unless an application therefor has been submitted to, and approved by, the Secretary. Such an application shall be submitted in such manner and contain such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. The Secretary may not approve such an application unless—
(1)
the application contains or is supported by reasonable assurances that—
(A)
the applicant has the experience, or capability, to conduct, through biomedical, behavioral, social, and related disciplines, long-term research on alcoholism and other alcohol problems and to provide coordination of such research among such disciplines;
(B)
the applicant has available to it sufficient facilities (including laboratory, reference, and data analysis facilities) to carry out the research plan contained in the application;
(C)
the applicant has facilities and personnel to provide training in the prevention and treatment of alcoholism and other alcohol problems;
(D)
the applicant has the capacity to train predoctoral and postdoctoral students for careers in research on alcoholism and other alcohol problems;
(E)
the applicant has the capacity to conduct courses on alcohol problems and research on alcohol problems for undergraduate and graduate students, and for medical and osteopathic, nursing, social work, and other specialized graduate students; and
(F)
the applicant has the capacity to conduct programs of continuing education in such medical, legal, and social service fields as the Secretary may require.
(2)
the application contains a detailed five-year plan for research relating to alcoholism and other alcohol problems.
(b)
Annual grants; amount; limitation on uses
The Secretary shall, under such conditions as the Secretary may reasonably require, make annual grants to Centers which have been designated under this section. No funds provided under a grant under this subsection may be used for the purchase of any land or the purchase, construction, preservation, or repair of any building. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, the term “construction” has the meaning given that term by section 292a(1) of this title. The Secretary shall include in the grants made under this section for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1981, a grant to a designated Center for research on the effects of alcohol on the elderly.
