§ 290aa–5a.
Behavioral health and substance use disorder resources for Native Americans
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term “eligible entity” means any health program administered directly by the Indian Health Service, a Tribal health program, an Indian Tribe, a Tribal organization, an Urban Indian organization, and a Native Hawaiian health organization.
(2)
The terms “Indian Tribe”, “Tribal health program”, “Tribal organization”, and “Urban Indian organization” have the meanings given to the terms “Indian tribe”, “Tribal health program”, “tribal organization”, and “Urban Indian organization” in section 1603 of title 25.
(3)
The term “health program administered directly by the Indian Health Service” means a “health program administered by the Service” as such term is used in section 1603(12)(A) of title 25.
(4)
The term “Native Hawaiian health organization” means “Papa Ola Lokahi” as defined in section 11711 of this title.
(b)
Grant program
(1)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, and in consultation with the Director of the Indian Health Service, as appropriate, shall award funds to eligible entities, in amounts developed in accordance with paragraph (2), to be used by the eligible entity to provide services for the prevention of, treatment of, and recovery from mental health and substance use disorders among American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians.
(2)
Formula
The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Indian Health Service, using the process described in subsection (d), shall develop a formula to determine the amount of an award under paragraph (1).
(3)
Delivery of funds
On request from an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization, the Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use and in coordination with the Director of the Indian Health Service, may award funds under this section through a contract or compact under, as applicable, title I or V of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.
(c)
Technical assistance and program evaluation
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall—
(A)
provide technical assistance to applicants and awardees under this section; and
(B)
in consultation with Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, conference with Urban Indian organizations, and engagement with a Native Hawaiian health organization, identify and establish appropriate mechanisms for Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, and a Native Hawaiian health organization to demonstrate outcomes and report data as required for participation in the program under this section.
(2)
Data submission and reporting
As a condition of receipt of funds under this section, an applicant shall agree to submit program evaluation data and reports consistent with the data submission and reporting requirements developed under this subsection.
(d)
Consultation
The Secretary shall, using an accountable process, consult with Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, confer with Urban Indian organizations, and engage with a Native Hawaiian health organization regarding the development of funding allocations pursuant to subsection (b)(2) and program evaluation and reporting requirements pursuant to subsection (c). In establishing such requirements, the Secretary shall seek to minimize administrative burden for eligible entities, as practicable.
(e)
Application
An entity desiring an award under subsection (b) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(f)
Report
Not later than 3 years after December 29, 2022, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, a report describing the services provided pursuant to this section.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
