§ 290hh–1.
Grants to address the problems of persons who experience traumatic events
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall award grants, contracts or cooperative agreements to public and nonprofit private entities, as well as to Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, for the purpose of developing and maintaining programs that provide for—
(1)
the continued operation of the National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative (referred to in this section as the “NCTSI”), which includes a cooperative agreement with a coordinating center, that focuses on the mental, behavioral, and biological aspects of psychological trauma response, prevention of the long-term consequences of child trauma, and early intervention services and treatment to address the long-term consequences of child trauma; and
(2)
the development and dissemination of knowledge with regard to evidence-based practices for identifying and treating mental, behavioral, and biological disorders of children and youth resulting from witnessing or experiencing a traumatic event.
(b)
Priorities
In awarding grants, contracts or cooperative agreements under subsection (a)(2) (related to the development and dissemination of knowledge on evidence-based practices for treating mental, behavioral, and biological disorders associated with psychological trauma), the Secretary shall give priority to universities, hospitals, mental health agencies, and other programs that have established clinical expertise and research experience in the field of trauma-related mental disorders.
(c)
Child outcome data
The NCTSI coordinating center described in subsection (a)(1) shall collect, analyze, report, and make publicly available, as appropriate, NCTSI-wide child treatment process and outcome data regarding the early identification and delivery of evidence-based treatment and services for children and families served by the NCTSI grantees.
(d)
Training
(1)
Coordinating center
The NCTSI coordinating center shall facilitate the coordination of training initiatives in evidence-based and trauma-informed treatments, interventions, and practices offered to NCTSI grantees, providers, and partners.
(2)
NCTSI grantees
In carrying out subsection (a)(2), NCTSI grantees shall develop trainings and other resources, as applicable and appropriate, to support implementation of the evidence-based practices developed and disseminated under such subsection.
(e)
Dissemination and collaboration
(1)
Coordinating center
The NCTSI coordinating center shall, as appropriate, collaborate with—
(A)
the Secretary, in the dissemination and implementation of evidence-based and trauma-informed interventions, treatments, products, and other resources to appropriate stakeholders; and
(B)
appropriate agencies that conduct or fund research within the Department of Health and Human Services, for purposes of sharing NCTSI expertise, evaluation data, and other activities, as appropriate.
(2)
NCTSI grantees
NCTSI grantees shall, as appropriate, collaborate with other such grantees, the NCTSI coordinating center, and the Secretary in carrying out subsections (a)(2) and (d)(2).
(f)
Review
The Secretary shall, consistent with the peer-review process, ensure that NCTSI applications are reviewed by appropriate experts in the field as part of a consensus-review process. The Secretary shall include review criteria related to expertise and experience in child trauma and evidence-based practices.
(g)
Geographical distribution
The Secretary shall ensure that grants, contracts or cooperative agreements under subsection (a) are distributed equitably among the regions of the United States and among urban and rural areas.
(h)
Application and evaluation
To be eligible to receive a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a), a public or nonprofit private entity or an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may require, including—
(1)
a plan for the evaluation of the activities funded under the grant, contract, or agreement, including both process and outcomes evaluation, and the submission of an evaluation at the end of the project period; and
(2)
a description of how such entity, Indian Tribe, or Tribal organization will support efforts led by the Secretary or the NCTSI coordinating center, as applicable, to evaluate activities carried out under this section.
(i)
Duration of awards
With respect to a grant, contract or cooperative agreement under subsection (a), the period during which payments under such an award will be made to the recipient shall not be less than 4 years, but shall not exceed 5 years. Such grants, contracts or agreements may be renewed.
(j)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—
(1)
$98,887,000 for fiscal year 2026;
(2)
$98,887,000 for fiscal year 2027;
(3)
$98,887,000 for fiscal year 2028;
(4)
$100,000,000 for fiscal year 2029; and
(5)
$100,000,000 for fiscal year 2030.
(k)
Short title
This section may be cited as the “Donald J. Cohen National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative”.
