§ 294f.
Advisory Committee on Interdisciplinary, Community-Based Linkages
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on Interdisciplinary, Community-Based Linkages (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Committee”).
(b)
Composition
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall determine the appropriate number of individuals to serve on the Advisory Committee. Such individuals shall not be officers or employees of the Federal Government.
(2)
Appointment
Not later than 90 days after November 13, 1998, the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Advisory Committee from among individuals who are health professionals from schools of the types described in sections 294a(b)(1)(A), 294c(b), and 294e(b) of this title. In making such appointments, the Secretary shall ensure a fair balance between the health professions, that at least 75 percent of the members of the Advisory Committee are health professionals, a broad geographic representation of members and a balance between urban and rural members. Members shall be appointed based on their competence, interest, and knowledge of the mission of the profession involved.
(3)
Minority representation
In appointing the members of the Advisory Committee under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall ensure the adequate representation of women and minorities.
(c)
Terms
(1)
In general
A member of the Advisory Committee shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that of the members first appointed—
(A)
⅓ of the members shall serve for a term of 1 year;
(B)
⅓ of the members shall serve for a term of 2 years; and
(C)
⅓ of the members shall serve for a term of 3 years.
(2)
Vacancies
(A)
In general
A vacancy on the Advisory Committee shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made and shall be subject to any conditions which applied with respect to the original appointment.
(B)
Filling unexpired term
An individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member replaced.
(d)
Duties
The Advisory Committee shall—
(1)
provide advice and recommendations to the Secretary concerning policy and program development and other matters of significance concerning the activities under this part;
(2)
not later than 3 years after November 13, 1998, and annually thereafter, prepare and submit to the Secretary, and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives, a report describing the activities of the Committee, including findings and recommendations made by the Committee concerning the activities under this part;
(3)
develop, publish, and implement performance measures for programs under this part;
(4)
develop and publish guidelines for longitudinal evaluations (as described in section 294n(d)(2) of this title) for programs under this part; and
(5)
recommend appropriation levels for programs under this part.
(e)
Meetings and documents
(1)
Meetings
The Advisory Committee shall meet not less than 3 times each year. Such meetings shall be held jointly with other related entities established under this subchapter where appropriate.
(2)
Documents
Not later than 14 days prior to the convening of a meeting under paragraph (1), the Advisory Committee shall prepare and make available an agenda of the matters to be considered by the Advisory Committee at such meeting. At any such meeting, the Advisory Council shall distribute materials with respect to the issues to be addressed at the meeting. Not later than 30 days after the adjourning of such a meeting, the Advisory Committee shall prepare and make available a summary of the meeting and any actions taken by the Committee based upon the meeting.
(f)
Compensation and expenses
(1)
Compensation
Each member of the Advisory Committee shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5 for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Committee.
(2)
Expenses
The members of the Advisory Committee shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Committee.
(g)
Chapter 10 of title 5
Chapter 10 of title 5 shall apply to the Advisory Committee under this section only to the extent that the provisions of chapter 10 of title 5 do not conflict with the requirements of this section.
