§ 296j–1.
Demonstration grants for family nurse practitioner training programs
(a)
Establishment of program
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall establish a training demonstration program for family nurse practitioners (referred to in this section as the “program”) to employ and provide 1-year training for nurse practitioners who have graduated from a nurse practitioner program for careers as primary care providers in Federally qualified health centers (referred to in this section as “FQHCs”) and nurse-managed health clinics (referred to in this section as “NMHCs”).
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the program is to enable each grant recipient to—
(1)
provide new nurse practitioners with clinical training to enable them to serve as primary care providers in FQHCs and NMHCs;
(2)
train new nurse practitioners to work under a model of primary care that is consistent with the principles set forth by the Institute of Medicine and the needs of vulnerable populations; and
(3)
create a model of FQHC and NMHC training for nurse practitioners that may be replicated nationwide.
(c)
Grants
The Secretary shall award 3-year grants to eligible entities that meet the requirements established by the Secretary, for the purpose of operating the nurse practitioner primary care programs described in subsection (a) in such entities.
(d)
Eligible entities
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall—
(1)
(A)
be a FQHC as defined in section 1395x(aa) of this title; or
(B)
be a nurse-managed health clinic, as defined in section 330A–1 of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 254c–1a] (as added by section 5208 of this Act); and
(2)
submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(e)
Priority in awarding grants
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that—
(1)
demonstrate sufficient infrastructure in size, scope, and capacity to undertake the requisite training of a minimum of 3 nurse practitioners per year, and to provide to each awardee 12 full months of full-time, paid employment and benefits consistent with the benefits offered to other full-time employees of such entity;
(2)
will assign not less than 1 staff nurse practitioner or physician to each of 4 precepted clinics;
(3)
will provide to each awardee specialty rotations, including specialty training in prenatal care and women’s health, adult and child psychiatry, orthopedics, geriatrics, and at least 3 other high-volume, high-burden specialty areas;
(4)
provide sessions on high-volume, high-risk health problems and have a record of training health care professionals in the care of children, older adults, and underserved populations; and
(5)
collaborate with other safety net providers, schools, colleges, and universities that provide health professions training.
(f)
Eligibility of nurse practitioners
(1)
In general
To be eligible for acceptance to a program funded through a grant awarded under this section, an individual shall—
(A)
be licensed or eligible for licensure in the State in which the program is located as an advanced practice registered nurse or advanced practice nurse and be eligible or board-certified as a family nurse practitioner; and
(B)
demonstrate commitment to a career as a primary care provider in a FQHC or in a NMHC.
(2)
Preference
In selecting awardees under the program, each grant recipient shall give preference to bilingual candidates that meet the requirements described in paragraph (1).
(3)
Deferral of certain service
The starting date of required service of individuals in the National Health Service Corps Service program under title II of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 202 et seq.) who receive training under this section shall be deferred until the date that is 22 days after the date of completion of the program.
(g)
Grant amount
Each grant awarded under this section shall be in an amount not to exceed $600,000 per year. A grant recipient may carry over funds from 1 fiscal year to another without obtaining approval from the Secretary.
(h)
Technical assistance grants
The Secretary may award technical assistance grants to 1 or more FQHCs or NMHCs that have demonstrated expertise in establishing a nurse practitioner residency training program. Such technical assistance grants shall be for the purpose of providing technical assistance to other recipients of grants under subsection (c).
(i)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014.
