§ 300ff–54.
Miscellaneous provisions
(a)
Services for individuals with hemophilia
In making grants under section 300ff–51 of this title, the Secretary shall ensure that any such grants made regarding the provision of early intervention services to individuals with hemophilia are made through the network of comprehensive hemophilia diagnostic and treatment centers.
(b)
Technical assistance
The Secretary may, directly or through grants or contracts, provide technical assistance to nonprofit private entities regarding the process of submitting to the Secretary applications for grants under section 300ff–51 of this title, and may provide technical assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of any program or service carried out pursuant to such section.
(c)
Planning and development grants
(1)
In general
The Secretary may provide planning grants to public and nonprofit private entities for purposes of—
(A)
enabling such entities to provide early intervention services; and
(B)
assisting the entities in expanding their capacity to provide HIV/AIDS-related health services, including early intervention services, in low-income communities and affected subpopulations that are underserved with respect to such services (subject to the condition that a grant pursuant to this subparagraph may not be expended to purchase or improve land, or to purchase, construct, or permanently improve, other than minor remodeling, any building or other facility).
(2)
Requirement
The Secretary may only award a grant to an entity under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the entity will use such grant to assist the entity in qualifying for a grant under section 300ff–51 of this title.
(3)
Preference
In awarding grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to entities that provide primary care services in rural areas or to underserved populations.
(4)
Amount and duration of grants
(A)
Early intervention services
A grant under paragraph (1)(A) may be made in an amount not to exceed $50,000.
(B)
Capacity development
(i)
Amount
A grant under paragraph (1)(B) may be made in an amount not to exceed $150,000.
(ii)
Duration
The total duration of a grant under paragraph (1)(B), including any renewal, may not exceed 3 years.
(5)
Limitation
Not to exceed 5 percent of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year under section 300ff–55 of this title may be used to carry out this section.
