§ 300u–6a.
Individual offices of minority health within the Department
(a)
In general
The head of each agency specified in subsection (b)(1) shall establish within the agency an office to be known as the Office of Minority Health. The head of each such Office shall be appointed by the head of the agency within which the Office is established, and shall report directly to the head of the agency. The head of such agency shall carry out this section (as this section relates to the agency) acting through such Director.
(b)
Specified agencies
The agencies referred to in subsection (a) are the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
(c)
Director; appointment
Each Office of Minority Health established in an agency listed in subsection (a) shall be headed by a director, with documented experience and expertise in minority health services research and health disparities elimination.
(d)
References
Except as otherwise specified, any reference in Federal law to an Office of Minority Health (in the Department of Health and Human Services) is deemed to be a reference to the Office of Minority Health in the Office of the Secretary.
(e)
Funding
(1)
Allocations
Of the amounts appropriated for a specified agency for a fiscal year, the Secretary must designate an appropriate amount of funds for the purpose of carrying out activities under this section through the minority health office of the agency. In reserving an amount under the preceding sentence for a minority health office for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reduce, by substantially the same percentage, the amount that otherwise would be available for each of the programs of the designated agency involved.
(2)
Availability of funds for staffing
The purposes for which amounts made available under paragraph may be expended by a minority health office include the costs of employing staff for such office.
