§ 300w–5.
Reports, data, and audits
(a)
Annual reports; contents; data collection; copies
(1)
For purposes of section 300w–4(c)(5)(B)(i) of this title, a State is collecting and reporting data for a fiscal year in accordance with this subsection if the State submits to the Secretary, not later than February 1 of the succeeding fiscal year, a report that—
(A)
describes the purposes for which the State expended payments made to the State under section 300w–2 of this title;
(B)
pursuant to section 300w–4(c)(5)(A) of this title, describes the extent of progress made by the State for purposes of such section;
(C)
meets the conditions described in the subsequent paragraphs of this subsection; and
(D)
contains such additional information regarding activities authorized in section 300w–3 of this title, and is submitted in such form, as the Secretary may require.
(2)
(A)
The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall develop sets of data for uniformly defining health status for purposes of the year 2000 health objectives (which sets are in this subsection referred to as “uniform data sets”). Each of such sets shall consist of one or more categories of information (in this subsection individually referred to as a “uniform data item”). The Secretary shall develop formats for the uniform collecting and reporting of information on such items.
(B)
A condition under paragraph (1)(C) for a fiscal year is that the State involved will, in accordance with the applicable format under subparagraph (A), collect during such year, and include in the report under paragraph (1), the necessary information for one uniform data item from each of the uniform data sets, which items are selected for the State by the Secretary.
(C)
In the case of fiscal year 1995 and each subsequent fiscal year, a condition under paragraph (1) for a State is that the State will, in accordance with the applicable format under subparagraph (A), collect during such year, and include in the report under paragraph (1), the necessary information for each of the uniform data sets appropriate to the year 2000 health objectives that the State has, in the State plan submitted under section 300w–4 of this title for the fiscal year, specified as a purpose for which payments under section 300w–2 of this title are to be expended.
(3)
The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall establish criteria for the uniform collection and reporting of data on activities authorized in section 300w–3 of this title with respect to which no uniform data items exist.
(4)
A condition under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year is that the State involved will make copies of the report submitted under such paragraph for the fiscal year available for public inspection, and will upon request provide a copy of the report to any individual for a charge not exceeding the cost of providing the copy.
(b)
Fiscal control; accounting procedures; annual audits; repayments and offsets; public inspection; Comptroller General evaluations; report to Congress
(1)
Each State shall establish fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure the proper disbursal of and accounting for Federal funds paid to the State under section 300w–2 of this title and funds transferred under section 300w–3(c) of this title for use under this part.
(2)
Each State shall annually audit its expenditures from payments received under section 300w–2 of this title. Such State audits shall be conducted by an entity independent of any agency administering a program funded under this part and, in so far as practical, in accordance with the Comptroller General’s standards for auditing governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions. Within 30 days following the date each audit is completed, the chief executive officer of the State shall transmit a copy of that audit to the Secretary.
(3)
Each State shall, after being provided by the Secretary with adequate notice and opportunity for a hearing within the State, repay to the United States amounts found not to have been expended in accordance with the requirements of this part or the certification provided by the State under section 300w–4 of this title. If such repayment is not made, the Secretary shall, after providing the State with adequate notice and opportunity for a hearing within the State, offset such amounts against the amount of any allotment to which the State is or may become entitled under this part.
(4)
The State shall make copies of the reports and audits required by this section available for public inspection within the State.
(5)
The Comptroller General of the United States shall, from time to time, evaluate the expenditures by States of grants under this part in order to assure that expenditures are consistent with the provisions of this part and the certification provided by the State under section 300w–4 of this title.
(6)
Not later than October 1, 1990, the Secretary shall report to the Congress on the activities of the States that have received funds under this part and may include in the report any recommendations for appropriate changes in legislation.
(c)
Inapplicability of title XVII of Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981
Title XVII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 shall not apply with respect to audits of funds allotted under this part.
