§ 300w–1.
Allotments
(a)
Availability based upon prior year distributions
(1)
From the amounts appropriated under section 300w of this title for any fiscal year and available for allotment under this subsection, the Secretary shall allot to each State an amount which bears the same ratio to the available amounts for that fiscal year as the amounts provided by the Secretary under the provisions of law listed in paragraph (2) to the State and entities in the State for fiscal year 1981 bore to the total amount appropriated for such provisions of law for fiscal year 1981.
(2)
The provisions of law referred to in paragraph (1) are the following provisions of law as in effect on September 30, 1981:
(A)
The authority for grants under section 247b of this title for preventive health service programs for the control of rodents.
(B)
The authority for grants under section 247b of this title for establishing and maintaining community and school-based fluoridation programs.
(C)
The authority for grants under section 247b of this title for preventive health service programs for hypertension.
(D)
Sections 247b–1 and 247b–2 of this title.
(E)
Section 246(d) 1 of this title.
(F)
Section 255(a) 1 of this title.
(G)
Sections 300d–1,1 300d–2,1 and 300d–3 1 of this title.
(b)
Population
From the amount required to be made available under section 300w(b) of this title for allotments under this subsection for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall make allotments to each State on the basis of the population of the State.
(c)
Distribution of appropriated funds not allotted
To the extent that all the funds appropriated under section 300w of this title for a fiscal year and available for allotment in such fiscal year are not otherwise allotted to States because—
(1)
one or more States have not submitted an application or description of activities in accordance with section 300w–4 of this title for the fiscal year;
(2)
one or more States have notified the Secretary that they do not intend to use the full amount of their allotment; or
(3)
some State allotments are offset or repaid under section 300w–5(b)(3) of this title;
such excess shall be allotted among each of the remaining States in proportion to the amount otherwise allotted to such States for the fiscal year without regard to this subsection.
(d)
Distributions to Indian tribes
(1)
If the Secretary—
(A)
receives a request from the governing body of an Indian tribe or tribal organization within any State that funds under this part be provided directly by the Secretary to such tribe or organization, and
(B)
determines that the members of such tribe or tribal organization would be better served by means of grants made directly by the Secretary under this part,
the Secretary shall reserve from amounts which would otherwise be allotted to such State under subsection (a) for the fiscal year the amount determined under paragraph (2).
(2)
The Secretary shall reserve for the purpose of paragraph (1) from amounts that would otherwise be allotted to such State under subsection (a) an amount equal to the amount which bears the same ratio to the State’s allotment for the fiscal year involved as the total amount provided or allotted for fiscal year 1981 by the Secretary to such tribe or tribal organization under the provisions of law referred to in subsection (a) bore to the total amount provided or allotted for such fiscal year by the Secretary to the State and entities (including Indian tribes and tribal organizations) in the State under such provisions of law.
(3)
The amount reserved by the Secretary on the basis of a determination under this subsection shall be granted to the Indian tribe or tribal organization serving the individuals for whom such a determination has been made.
(4)
In order for an Indian tribe or tribal organization to be eligible for a grant for a fiscal year under this subsection, it shall submit to the Secretary a plan for such fiscal year which meets such criteria as the Secretary may prescribe.
(5)
The terms “Indian tribe” and “tribal organization” have the same meaning given such terms in section 5304(b) and (c) 1 of title 25.
(e)
Report on equitable distribution of available funds
The Secretary shall conduct a study for the purpose of devising a formula for the equitable distribution of funds available for allotment to the States under this section. In conducting the study, the Secretary shall take into account—
(1)
the financial resources of the various States,
(2)
the populations of the States, and
(3)
any other factor which the Secretary may consider appropriate.
Before June 30, 1982, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress respecting the development of a formula and make such recommendations as the Secretary may deem appropriate in order to ensure the most equitable distribution of funds under allotments under this section.
