§ 300x–9.
Funding
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purpose of carrying out this subpart, and subpart III and section 290aa–4(c) of this title with respect to mental health, there are authorized to be appropriated $857,571,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
(b)
Allocations for technical assistance, data collection, and program evaluation
(1)
In general
For the purpose of carrying out section 300x–58(a) of this title with respect to mental health and the purposes specified in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary shall obligate 5 percent of the amounts appropriated under subsection (a) for a fiscal year.
(2)
Data collection
The purpose specified in this paragraph is carrying out sections 290aa–4(c) and 300y of this title with respect to mental health.
(3)
Program evaluation
The purpose specified in this paragraph is the conduct of evaluations of prevention and treatment programs and services with respect to mental health to determine methods for improving the availability and quality of such programs and services.
(c)
Early serious mental illness
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), a State shall expend not less than 10 percent of the amount the State receives for carrying out this section for each fiscal year to support evidence-based programs that address the needs of individuals with early serious mental illness, including psychotic disorders, regardless of the age of the individual at onset.
(2)
State flexibility
In lieu of expending 10 percent of the amount the State receives under this section for a fiscal year as required under paragraph (1), a State may elect to expend not less than 20 percent of such amount by the end of such succeeding fiscal year.
(d)
Crisis care
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (3), a State shall expend at least 5 percent of the amount the State receives pursuant to section 300x of this title for each fiscal year to support evidenced-based programs that address the crisis care needs of individuals with serious mental illnesses and children with serious emotional disturbances, which may include individuals (including children and adolescents) experiencing mental health crises demonstrating serious mental illness or serious emotional disturbance, as applicable.
(2)
Core elements
At the discretion of the single State agency responsible for the administration of the program of the State under a grant under section 300x of this title, funds expended pursuant to paragraph (1) may be used to fund some or all of the core crisis care service components, as applicable and appropriate, including the following:
(A)
Crisis call centers.
(B)
24/7 mobile crisis services.
(C)
Crisis stabilization programs offering acute care or subacute care in a hospital or appropriately licensed facility, as determined by such State, with referrals to inpatient or outpatient care.
(3)
State flexibility
In lieu of expending 5 percent of the amount the State receives pursuant to section 300x of this title for a fiscal year to support evidence-based programs as required by paragraph (1), a State may elect to expend not less than 10 percent of such amount to support such programs by the end of two consecutive fiscal years.
(4)
Rule of construction
Section 300x–1(b)(1)(A)(vi) shall not be construed as limiting the provision of crisis care services pursuant to paragraph (1).
