§ 300x–30.
Maintenance of effort regarding State expenditures
(a)
In general
With respect to the principal agency of a State for carrying out authorized activities, a funding agreement for a grant under section 300x–21 of this title for the State for a fiscal year is that such agency will for such year maintain aggregate State expenditures for authorized activities at a level that is not less than the average level of such expenditures maintained by the State for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the State is applying for the grant.
(b)
Exclusion of certain funds
The Secretary may exclude from the aggregate State expenditures under subsection (a), funds appropriated to the principle agency for authorized activities which are of a non-recurring nature and for a specific purpose.
(c)
Waiver
(1)
In general
Upon the request of a State, the Secretary may waive all or part of the requirement established in subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that extraordinary economic conditions exist in the State, or any part of the State, to justify the waiver.
(2)
Date certain for acting upon request
The Secretary shall approve or deny a request for a waiver under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days after the date on which the request is made.
(3)
Applicability of waiver
Any waiver provided by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be applicable only to the fiscal year involved.
(d)
Noncompliance by State
(1)
In general
In making a grant under section 300x–21 of this title to a State for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make a determination of whether, for the previous fiscal year, the State maintained material compliance with any agreement made under subsection (a). If the Secretary determines that a State has failed to maintain such compliance, the Secretary shall reduce the amount of the allotment under section 300x–21 of this title for the State for the fiscal year for which the grant is being made by an amount equal to the amount constituting such failure for the previous fiscal year.
(2)
Submission of information to Secretary
The Secretary may make a grant under section 300x–21 of this title for a fiscal year only if the State involved submits to the Secretary information sufficient for the Secretary to make the determination required in paragraph (1).
(3)
Alternative
A State that has failed to comply with this section and would otherwise be subject to a reduction in the State’s allotment under section 300x–21 of this title, may, upon request by the State, in lieu of having the State’s allotment under section 300x–21 of this title reduced, agree to comply with a negotiated agreement that is approved by the Secretary and carried out in accordance with guidelines issued by the Secretary. If a State fails to enter into or comply with a negotiated agreement, the Secretary may take action under this paragraph or the terms of the negotiated agreement.
