§ 5205.
Disaster grant closeout procedures
(a)
Statute of limitations
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding section 3716(e) of title 31 and except as provided in paragraph (2), no administrative action to recover any payment made to a State or local government for disaster or emergency assistance under this chapter shall be initiated in any forum after the date that is 3 years after the date of transmission of the final expenditure report for project completion as certified by the grantee.
(2)
Fraud exception
The limitation under paragraph (1) shall apply unless there is evidence of civil or criminal fraud.
(b)
Rebuttal of presumption of record maintenance
(1)
In general
In any dispute arising under this section after the date that is 3 years after the date of transmission of the final expenditure report for project completion as certified by the grantee, there shall be a presumption that accounting records were maintained that adequately identify the source and application of funds provided for financially assisted activities.
(2)
Affirmative evidence
The presumption described in paragraph (1) may be rebutted only on production of affirmative evidence that the State or local government did not maintain documentation described in that paragraph.
(3)
Inability to produce documentation
The inability of the Federal, State, or local government to produce source documentation supporting expenditure reports later than 3 years after the date of transmission of the final expenditure report for project completion as certified by the grantee shall not constitute evidence to rebut the presumption described in paragraph (1).
(4)
Right of access
The period during which the Federal, State, or local government has the right to access source documentation shall not be limited to the required 3-year retention period referred to in paragraph (3), but shall last as long as the records are maintained.
(c)
Binding nature of grant requirements
A State or local government shall not be liable for reimbursement or any other penalty for any payment made under this chapter if—
(1)
the payment was authorized by an approved agreement specifying the costs;
(2)
the costs were reasonable; and
(3)
the purpose of the grant was accomplished.
(d)
Facilitating closeout
(1)
Incentives
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency may develop incentives and penalties that encourage State, local, or Indian tribal governments to close out expenditures and activities on a timely basis related to disaster or emergency assistance.
(2)
Agency requirements
The Federal Emergency Management Agency shall, consistent with applicable regulations and required procedures, meet its responsibilities to improve closeout practices and reduce the time to close disaster program awards.
