§ 1981.
Definitions
In this chapter:
(1)
Circular economy
The term “circular economy” has the meaning given such term in section 4201 of this title.
(2)
Coastal shoreline community
The term “coastal shoreline community” means a city or county directly adjacent to the open ocean, major estuaries, or the Great Lakes.
(3)
EPA Administrator
The term “EPA Administrator” has the meaning given such term in section 4201 of this title.
(4)
Indian Tribe
The term “Indian Tribe” has the meaning given that term in section 5304 of title 25.
(5)
Interagency Committee
The term “Interagency Committee” means the Interagency Marine Debris Coordinating Committee established under section 1954 of this title.
(6)
Marine debris
The term “marine debris” means any persistent solid material that is manufactured or processed and directly or indirectly, intentionally or unintentionally, disposed of or abandoned into the marine environment or the Great Lakes.
(7)
MARPOL; Annex V; Convention
The terms “MARPOL”, “Annex V”, and “Convention” have the meaning given those terms under section 1901(a) of this title.
(8)
Non-Federal funds
The term “non-Federal funds” means funds provided by—
(A)
a State;
(B)
an Indian Tribe;
(C)
a territory of the United States;
(D)
one or more units of local governments or Tribal organizations;
(E)
a foreign government;
(F)
a private for-profit entity;
(G)
a nonprofit organization; or
(H)
a private individual.
(9)
Nonprofit organization
The term “nonprofit organization” has the meaning given such term in section 4201 of this title.
(10)
Post consumer materials management
The term “post-consumer materials management” has the meaning given such term in section 4201 of this title.
(11)
Program
The term “Program” means the Marine Debris Program established under section 1952 of this title.
(12)
Severe marine debris event
The term “severe marine debris event” means atypically large amounts of marine debris caused by a natural disaster, including a tsunami, flood, landslide, or hurricane, or other source.
(13)
State
The term “State” means—
(A)
any State of the United States that is impacted by marine debris within its seaward or Great Lakes boundaries;
(B)
Indian Tribe;
(C)
the District of Columbia;
(D)
American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands; and
(E)
any other territory or possession of the United States, or separate sovereign in free association with the United States, that is impacted by marine debris within its seaward boundaries.
(14)
Tribal Government
The term “Tribal Government” means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published most recently as of December 26, 2025, pursuant to section 5131 of title 25.
(15)
Tribal organization
The term “Tribal organization” has the meaning given the term in section 5304 of title 25.
(16)
Under Secretary
The term “Under Secretary” has the meaning given such term in section 4201 of this title.
