§ 2084.
Office of Trade
(a)
In general
There is established in U.S. Customs and Border Protection an Office of Trade.
(b)
Executive Assistant Commissioner
There shall be at the head of the Office of Trade an Executive Assistant Commissioner, who shall report to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(c)
Duties
The Office of Trade shall—
(1)
direct the development and implementation, pursuant to the customs and trade laws of the United States, of policies and regulations administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
(2)
advise the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection with respect to the impact on trade facilitation and trade enforcement of any policy or regulation otherwise proposed or administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
(3)
coordinate with the Executive Assistant Commissioner for the Office of Field Operations with respect to the trade facilitation and trade enforcement activities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
(4)
direct the development and implementation of matters relating to the priority trade issues identified by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the joint strategic plan for trade facilitation and trade enforcement required under section 4314 of this title;
(5)
otherwise advise the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection with respect to the development and implementation of the joint strategic plan;
(6)
direct the trade enforcement activities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
(7)
oversee the trade modernization activities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, including the development and implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment computer system authorized under section 58c(f)(4) of this title and support for the establishment of the International Trade Data System under the oversight of the Department of the Treasury pursuant to section 1411(d) of this title;
(8)
direct the administration of customs revenue functions as otherwise provided by law or delegated by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and
(9)
prepare an annual report to be submitted to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives not later than June 1, 2016, and March 1 of each calendar year thereafter that includes—
(A)
a summary of the changes to customs policies and regulations adopted by U.S. Customs and Border Protection during the preceding calendar year; and
(B)
a description of the public vetting and interagency consultation that occurred with respect to each such change.
(d)
Transfer of assets, functions, personnel, or liabilities; elimination of offices
(1)
Office of International Trade
(A)
Transfer
Not later than 30 days after February 24, 2016, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall transfer the assets, functions, personnel, and liabilities of the Office of International Trade to the Office of Trade established under subsection (b).
(B)
Elimination
Not later than 30 days after February 24, 2016, the Office of International Trade shall be abolished.
(C)
Limitation on funds
No funds appropriated to U.S. Customs and Border Protection or the Department of Homeland Security may be used to transfer the assets, functions, personnel, or liabilities of the Office of International Trade to an office other than the Office of Trade established under subsection (a), unless the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection notifies the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Finance of the Senate of the specific assets, functions, personnel, or liabilities to be transferred, and the reason for the transfer, not less than 90 days prior to the transfer of such assets, functions, personnel, or liabilities.
(D)
Office of International Trade defined
In this paragraph, the term “Office of International Trade” means the Office of International Trade established by section 2072 of this title and as in effect on the day before February 24, 2016.
(2)
Other transfers
(A)
In general
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection is authorized to transfer any other assets, functions, or personnel within U.S. Customs and Border Protection to the Office of Trade established under subsection (a).
(B)
Congressional notification
Not less than 90 days prior to the transfer of assets, functions, personnel, or liabilities under subparagraph (A), the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall notify the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Finance of the Senate of the specific assets, functions, personnel, or liabilities to be transferred, and the reason for such transfer.
(e)
Definitions
In this section, the terms “customs and trade laws of the United States”, “trade enforcement”, and “trade facilitation” have the meanings given such terms in section 4301 of this title.
