§ 3316c.
Development of definitions for certain terms relating to intelligence
(a)
Development
Not later than September 30, 2023, the Director of National Intelligence and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, in consultation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence community, shall jointly develop and publish definitions for the following terms:
(1)
Acoustic intelligence.
(2)
All-source intelligence.
(3)
Communications intelligence.
(4)
Critical intelligence.
(5)
Cyber-threat intelligence.
(6)
Electronic intelligence.
(7)
Explosive ordnance intelligence.
(8)
General military intelligence.
(9)
Imagery intelligence.
(10)
Geospatial intelligence.
(11)
Instrumentation signals intelligence.
(12)
Intelligence-related activity.
(13)
Joint intelligence.
(14)
Measurement and signature intelligence.
(15)
Medical intelligence.
(16)
Open-source intelligence.
(17)
Operational intelligence.
(18)
Scientific and technical intelligence.
(19)
Signals intelligence.
(20)
Strategic intelligence.
(21)
Tactical intelligence.
(22)
Target intelligence.
(23)
Technical intelligence.
(24)
Such others terms as may be jointly determined necessary by the Director of National Intelligence and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
(b)
Application to activities of intelligence community
The Director of National Intelligence shall ensure that the definitions developed under subsection (a) are used uniformly across activities of the intelligence community with respect to the corresponding terms specified in such subsection.
(c)
Notice of modifications
The Director of National Intelligence and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees notification of any modification by the Director and Under Secretary to a definition of a term specified in subsection (a) following the initial publication of the definition under such subsection.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—
(1)
the congressional intelligence committees; and
(2)
the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
