§ 4110.
War Claims Fund
(a)
Composition; expenditure
There is hereby created on the books of the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the War Claims Fund. The War Claims Fund shall consist of all sums covered into the Treasury pursuant to the provisions of section 4336 of this title. The moneys in such fund shall be available for expenditure only as provided in this chapter or as may be provided hereafter by the Congress.
(b)
Estimation and certification to Treasury of total amount necessary under section 4104(f)
Before August 1, 1956, the Secretary of Labor shall estimate and report to the President the total amount which will be required to pay all benefits payable by reason of section 4104(f) of this title. If the President approves the amount so estimated as reasonably accurate, the total amount so estimated and approved shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury; if the President does not so approve he shall determine such amount, and the amount so determined shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury. Such certification shall be made on or before September 1, 1956. The Secretary of the Treasury shall then transfer from the War Claims Fund to the general fund of the Treasury a sum equal to the total amount certified to him under this subsection.
(c)
Estimation and certification to Treasury of total amount necessary under section 4103(c)
Before August 1, 1956, the Secretary of Labor shall estimate and report to the President the total amount which will be required to pay all additional benefits payable as a result of the enactment of section 4103(c) of this title. If the President approves the amount so estimated as reasonably accurate, the total amount so estimated and approved shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury; if the President does not so approve, he shall determine such amount, and the amount so determined shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury. Such certification shall be made on or before September 1, 1956. The Secretary of the Treasury shall then transfer from the War Claims Fund to the general fund of the Treasury a sum equal to the total amount certified to him under this subsection.
(d)
Certification to Treasury of total canceled obligations under section 4103(b)(1)
On or before August 1, 1956, the Secretary of State is authorized and directed to certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total amount of all obligations canceled pursuant to the provisions of section 4103(b)(1) of this title. The Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer from the war claims fund to the general fund of the Treasury an amount equal to the total amount so certified.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations for Commission’s work
There are hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the war claims fund, such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this subchapter.
