§ 3076.
Native working group
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall convene a Native working group consisting of not fewer than 12 representatives of Indian Tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations with relevant expertise, who shall be nominated by Indian Tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations, to advise the Federal Government in accordance with this section.
(b)
Recommendations
The Native working group convened under subsection (a) may provide recommendations regarding—
(1)
the voluntary return of tangible cultural heritage by collectors, dealers, and other individuals and non-Federal organizations that hold such tangible cultural heritage; and
(2)
the elimination of illegal commerce of cultural items and archaeological resources in the United States and foreign markets.
(c)
Requests
The Native working group convened under subsection (a) may make formal requests to initiate certain agency actions, including requests that—
(1)
the Department of Justice initiate judicial proceedings domestically or abroad to aid in the repatriation cultural items and archaeological resources; and
(2)
the Department of State initiate dialogue through diplomatic channels to aid in that repatriation.
(d)
Agency and committee assistance
(1)
In general
On request by the Native working group convened under subsection (a), the agencies and committees described in paragraph (2) shall make efforts to provide information and assistance to the Native working group.
(2)
Description of agencies and committees
The agencies and committees referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
(A)
The Department of the Interior.
(B)
The Department of Justice.
(C)
The Department of Homeland Security.
(D)
The Department of State.
(E)
The review committee established under section 3006(a) of this title.
(F)
The Cultural Heritage Coordinating Committee established pursuant to section 2 of the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act (Public Law 114–151; 19 U.S.C. 2601 note).
(G)
Any other relevant Federal agency, committee, or working group.
(e)
Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Native working group convened under subsection (a).
