§ 5901.
Definitions
In this chapter:
(1)
Applicable Bureau office
The term “applicable Bureau office” means—
(A)
a Regional office of the Bureau;
(B)
an Agency office of the Bureau; or
(C)
a Land Titles and Records Office of the Bureau.
(2)
Bureau
The term “Bureau” means the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(3)
Director
The term “Director” means the Director of the Bureau.
(4)
First certified title status report
The term “first certified title status report” means the title status report needed to verify title status on Indian land.
(5)
Indian land
The term “Indian land” has the meaning given the term in section 162.003 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on May 4, 2026).
(6)
Land mortgage
The term “land mortgage” means a mortgage obtained by an individual Indian who owns a tract of trust land for the purpose of—
(A)
home acquisition;
(B)
home construction;
(C)
home improvements; or
(D)
economic development.
(7)
Leasehold mortgage
The term “leasehold mortgage” means a mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument that pledges the leasehold interest of a lessee as security for a debt or other obligation owed by the lessee to a lender or other mortgagee.
(8)
Mortgage package
The term “mortgage package” means a proposed residential leasehold mortgage, business leasehold mortgage, land mortgage, or right-of-way document submitted to an applicable Bureau office under section 5902(a)(1) of this title.
(9)
Relevant Federal agency
The term “relevant Federal agency” means any of the following Federal agencies that guarantee or make direct mortgage loans on Indian land:
(A)
The Department of Agriculture.
(B)
The Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(C)
The Department of Veterans Affairs.
(10)
Right-of-way document
The term “right-of-way document” has the meaning given the term in section 169.2 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on May 4, 2026).
(11)
Subsequent certified title status report
The term “subsequent certified title status report” means the title status report needed to identify any liens against a residential, business, or land lease on Indian land.
