§ 4042.
Tax on fuel used in commercial transportation on inland waterways
(a)
In general
There is hereby imposed a tax on any liquid used during any calendar quarter by any person as a fuel in a vessel in commercial waterway transportation.
(b)
Amount of tax
(1)
In general
The rate of the tax imposed by subsection (a) is the sum of—
(A)
the Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate, and
(B)
the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate.
(2)
Rates
For purposes of paragraph (1)—
(A)
The Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate is 29 cents per gallon.
(B)
The Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate is 0.1 cent per gallon.
(3)
Exception for fuel on which Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate separately imposed
The Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate under paragraph (2)(B) shall not apply to the use of any fuel if tax was imposed with respect to such fuel under section 4041(d) or 4081 at the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate.
(4)
Termination of Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate
The Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate under paragraph (2)(B) shall not apply during any period during which the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate under section 4081 does not apply.
(c)
Exemptions
(1)
Deep-draft ocean-going vessels
The tax imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any vessel designed primarily for use on the high seas which has a draft of more than 12 feet.
(2)
Passenger vessels
The tax imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any vessel used primarily for the transportation of persons.
(3)
Use by State or local government in transporting property in a state or local business
Subparagraph (B) of subsection (d)(1) shall not apply with respect to use by a State or political subdivision thereof.
(4)
Use in moving lash and seabee ocean-going barges
The tax imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to use for movement by tug of exclusively LASH (Lighter-aboard-ship) and SEABEE ocean-going barges released by their ocean-going carriers solely to pick up or deliver international cargoes.
(d)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Commercial waterway transportation
The term “commercial waterway transportation” means any use of a vessel on any inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States—
(A)
in the business of transporting property for compensation or hire, or
(B)
in transporting property in the business of the owner, lessee, or operator of the vessel (other than fish or other aquatic animal life caught on the voyage).
(2)
Inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States
The term “inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States” means any inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States which is described in section 206 of the Inland Waterways Revenue Act of 1978.
(3)
Person
The term “person” includes the United States, a State, a political subdivision of a State, or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing.
(e)
Date for filing return
The date for filing the return of the tax imposed by this section for any calendar quarter shall be the last day of the first month following such quarter.
