§ 4253.
Exemptions
(a)
Certain coin-operated service
Service paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones available to the public shall not be subject to the tax imposed by section 4251 with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to toll telephone service if the charge for such toll telephone service is less than 25 cents; except that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be subject to the tax.
(b)
News services
No tax shall be imposed under section 4251, except with respect to local telephone service, on any payment received from any person for services used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such service is billed in writing to such person.
(c)
International, etc., organizations
No tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on any payment received for services furnished to an international organization, or to the American National Red Cross.
(d)
Servicemen in combat zone
No tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on any payment received for any toll telephone service which originates within a combat zone, as defined in section 112, from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such combat zone, as determined under such section, provided a certificate, setting forth such facts as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe, is furnished to the person receiving such payment.
(e)
Items otherwise taxed
Only one payment of tax under section 4251 shall be required with respect to the tax on any service, notwithstanding the lines or stations of one or more persons are used in furnishing such service.
(f)
Common carriers and communications companies
No tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on the amount paid for any toll telephone service described in section 4252(b)(2) to the extent that the amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.
(g)
Installation charges
No tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on so much of any amount paid for the installation of any instrument, wire, pole, switchboard, apparatus, or equipment as is properly attributable to such installation.
(h)
Nonprofit hospitals
No tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on any amount paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term “nonprofit hospital” means a hospital referred to in section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) which is exempt from income tax under section 501(a).
(i)
State and local governmental exemption
Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, no tax shall be imposed under section 4251 upon any payment received for services or facilities furnished to the government of any State, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.
(j)
Exemption for nonprofit educational organizations
Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, no tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on any amount paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or facilities furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term “nonprofit educational organization” means an educational organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) which is exempt from income tax under section 501(a). The term also includes a school operated as an activity of an organization described in section 501(c)(3) which is exempt from income tax under section 501(a), if such school normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly carried on.
(k)
Exemption for qualified blood collector organizations
Under regulations provided by the Secretary, no tax shall be imposed under section 4251 on any amount paid by a qualified blood collector organization (as defined in section 7701(a)(49)) for services or facilities furnished to such organization.
(l)
Filing of exemption certificates
(1)
In general
In order to claim an exemption under subsection (c), (h), (i), (j), or (k), a person shall provide to the provider of communications services a statement (in such form and manner as the Secretary may provide) certifying that such person is entitled to such exemption.
(2)
Duration of certificate
Any statement provided under paragraph (1) shall remain in effect until—
(A)
the provider of communications services has actual knowledge that the information provided in such statement is false, or
(B)
such provider is notified by the Secretary that the provider of the statement is no longer entitled to an exemption described in paragraph (1).
If any information provided in such statement is no longer accurate, the person providing such statement shall inform the provider of communications services within 30 days of any change of information.
