§ 200303.
Availability of funds
(a)
In General.—
Any amounts deposited in the Fund under section 200302 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter shall be made available for expenditure for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year thereafter, without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, to carry out the purposes of the Fund (including accounts and programs made available from the Fund pursuant to the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116–94; 133 Stat. 2534)).
(b)
Additional Amounts.—
Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall be in addition to amounts made available to the Fund under section 105 of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109–432) or otherwise appropriated from the Fund.
(c)
Allocation Authority.—
(1)
Submission of cost estimates.—
The President shall submit to Congress detailed account, program, and project allocations of the full amount made available under subsection (a)—
(A)
for fiscal year 2021, not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the Great American Outdoors Act; and
(B)
for each fiscal year thereafter, as part of the annual budget submission of the President.
(2)
Alternate allocation.—
(A)
In general.—
Appropriations Acts may provide for alternate allocation of amounts made available under subsection (a), including allocations by account, program, and project.
(B)
Allocation by president.—
(i)
No alternate allocations.—
If Congress has not enacted legislation establishing alternate allocations by the date on which the Act making full-year appropriations for the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies for the applicable fiscal year is enacted into law, amounts made available under subsection (a) shall be allocated by the President.
(ii)
Insufficient alternate allocation.—
If Congress enacts legislation establishing alternate allocations for amounts made available under subsection (a) that are less than the full amount appropriated under that subsection, the difference between the amount appropriated and the alternate allocation shall be allocated by the President.
(3)
Recreational public access.—
Amounts expended from the Fund under this section shall be consistent with the requirements for recreational public access for hunting, fishing, recreational shooting, or other outdoor recreational purposes under section 200306(c).
(4)
Annual report.—
The President shall submit to Congress an annual report that describes the final allocation by account, program, and project of amounts made available under subsection (a), including a description of the status of obligations and expenditures.
