§ 311102.
Establishment
(a)
In General.—
There is established in the Department of the Interior the Preserve America Program, under which the Secretary, in partnership with the Council, may provide competitive grants to States, local governments (including local governments in the process of applying for designation as Preserve America Communities under section 311103 of this title, Indian tribes, communities designated as Preserve America Communities under section 311103 of this title, State historic preservation offices, and tribal historic preservation offices to support preservation efforts through heritage tourism, education, and historic preservation planning activities.
(b)
Eligible Projects.—
(1)
In general.—
The following projects shall be eligible for a grant under this chapter:
(A)
A project for the conduct of—
(i)
research on, and documentation of, the history of a community; and
(ii)
surveys of the historic resources of a community.
(B)
An education and interpretation project that conveys the history of a community or site.
(C)
A planning project (other than building rehabilitation) that advances economic development using heritage tourism and historic preservation.
(D)
A training project that provides opportunities for professional development in areas that would aid a community in using and promoting its historic resources.
(E)
A project to support heritage tourism in a Preserve America Community designated under section 311103 of this title.
(F)
Other nonconstruction projects that identify or promote historic properties or provide for the education of the public about historic properties that are consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
(2)
Limitation.—
In providing grants under this chapter, the Secretary shall provide only one grant to each eligible project selected for a grant.
(c)
Preference.—
In providing grants under this chapter, the Secretary may give preference to projects that carry out the purposes of both the program and the Save America’s Treasures Program.
(d)
Consultation and Notification.—
(1)
Consultation.—
The Secretary shall consult with the Council in preparing the list of projects to be provided grants for a fiscal year under the program.
(2)
Notification.—
Not later than 30 days before the date on which the Secretary provides grants for a fiscal year under the program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a list of any eligible projects that are to be provided grants under the program for the fiscal year.
(e)
Cost-Sharing Requirement.—
(1)
In general.—
The non-Federal share of the cost of carrying out a project provided a grant under this chapter shall be not less than 50 percent of the total cost of the project.
(2)
Form of non-federal share.—
The non-Federal share required under paragraph (1) shall be in the form of—
(A)
cash; or
(B)
donated supplies and related services, the value of which shall be determined by the Secretary.
(3)
Requirement.—
The Secretary shall ensure that each applicant for a grant has the capacity to secure, and a feasible plan for securing, the non-Federal share for an eligible project required under paragraph (1) before a grant is provided to the eligible project under the program.
