§ 1467.
Examination fees
(a)
Examination of savings associations
The cost of conducting examinations of savings associations pursuant to section 1464(d) of this title shall be assessed by—
(1)
the Comptroller, against each such Federal savings association, as the Comptroller deems necessary or appropriate; and
(2)
the Corporation, against each such State savings association, as the Corporation deems necessary or appropriate.
(b)
Examination of affiliates
The cost of conducting examinations of affiliates of savings associations pursuant to this chapter may be assessed by the Comptroller or Corporation, as appropriate against each affiliate that is examined as the Comptroller or Corporation, as appropriate deems necessary or appropriate.
(c)
Assessment against association in case of affiliate’s refusal to pay
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), if any affiliate of any savings association—
(A)
refuses to pay any assessment under subsection (b); or
(B)
fails to pay any such assessment before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of the assessment,
the appropriate Federal banking agency may assess such cost against, and collect such cost from, such savings association.
(2)
Affiliate of more than 1 savings association
If any affiliate referred to in paragraph (1) is an affiliate of more than 1 savings association, the assessment with respect to the affiliate against, and collected from, any affiliated savings association in such proportions as the appropriate Federal banking agency may prescribe.
(d)
Civil money penalty for affiliate’s refusal to cooperate
(1)
Penalty imposed
If any affiliate of any savings association—
(A)
refuses to permit any examiner appointed by the appropriate Federal banking agency to make an examination; or
(B)
refuses to provide any information required to be disclosed in the course of any examination,
the savings association shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each day that any such refusal continues.
(2)
Assessment and collection
Any penalty imposed under paragraph (1) shall be assessed and collected by the appropriate Federal banking agency, in the manner provided in section 8(i)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2)].
(e)
Regulations
The Comptroller may prescribe regulations with respect to—
(1)
the computation of, and the assessment for, the cost of conducting examinations pursuant to this section; and
(2)
the collection and use of such assessments and any fees under this section.
Such regulations may establish formulas to determine a fee or schedule of fees to cover the costs of examinations and also to cover the cost of processing applications, filings, notices, and requests for approvals by the appropriate Federal banking agency or the designee of the Comptroller.
(f)
[Reserved].
(g)
Costs of other examinations
(1)
Examination of fiduciary activities
In addition to any assessment imposed pursuant to subsection (a), the cost of conducting examinations of fiduciary activities of savings associations which exercise fiduciary powers (including savings associations or similar institutions in the District of Columbia) shall be assessed by the appropriate Federal banking agency against such savings associations (or similar institutions).
(2)
Examinations in excess of 2 per calendar year
If any savings association or affiliate of a savings association is examined by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the savings association more than 2 times in any calendar year, the cost of conducting such additional examinations shall be assessed, in addition to any assessment imposed pursuant to subsection (a), by the appropriate Federal banking agency or the Corporation, as the case may be, against such savings association or affiliate.
(h)
Additional information
Any savings association and any affiliate of any savings association shall provide the appropriate Federal banking agency with access to any information or report with respect to any examination made by any public regulatory authority and furnish any additional information with respect thereto as the appropriate Federal banking agency may require.
(i)
Treatment of examination assessments
(1)
Deposits
Amounts received by the appropriate Federal banking agency from assessments under this section (other than an assessment under subsection (d)(2)) or section 1467a(b)(4) of this title may be deposited in the manner provided in section 5234 of the Revised Statutes [12 U.S.C. 192] with respect to assessments by the Comptroller of the Currency.
(2)
Assessments are not Government funds
The amounts received by the appropriate Federal banking agency from any assessment under this section shall not be construed to be Government or public funds or appropriated money.
(3)
Assessments are not subject to apportionment of funds
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amounts received by the appropriate Federal banking agency from any assessment under this section shall not be subject to apportionment for the purpose of chapter 15 of title 31 or under any other authority.
(j)
Processing fee
The appropriate Federal banking agency may, in the sole discretion of the appropriate Federal banking agency, assess against any person that submits to the appropriate Federal banking agency an application, filing, notice, or request a fee to cover the cost of processing such submission.
(k)
Fees for examinations and supervisory activities
The appropriate Federal banking agency may assess against an institution fees to fund the direct and indirect expenses of the Office as the appropriate Federal banking agency deems necessary or appropriate. The fees may be imposed more frequently than annually at the discretion of the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(l)
Working capital
The appropriate Federal banking agency is authorized to impose fees and assessments pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (e), and (k) of this section, in excess of actual expenses for any given year, to permit the appropriate Federal banking agency to maintain a working capital fund. The appropriate Federal banking agency shall remit to the payors of such fees and assessments any funds collected in excess of what he deems necessary to maintain such working capital fund.
(m)
Use of funds
The appropriate Federal banking agency is authorized to use the combined resources retained through fees and assessments imposed pursuant to this section to pay all direct and indirect salary and administrative expenses of the Office, including contracts and purchases of property and services, and the direct and indirect expenses of the examinations and supervisory activities of the Office.
