§ 1536.
Community-based coalition enhancement grants to address local drug crises
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
(2)
Director
The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
(3)
Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997
The term “Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997” means chapter 2 of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1521 et seq.).
(4)
Eligible entity
The term “eligible entity” means an organization that—
(A)
on or before the date of submitting an application for a grant under this section, receives or has received a grant under the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997; and
(B)
has documented, using local data, rates of abuse of opioids or methamphetamines at levels that are—
(i)
significantly higher than the national average as determined by the Secretary (including appropriate consideration of the results of the Monitoring the Future Survey published by the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Survey on Drug Use and Health published by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration); or
(ii)
higher than the national average, as determined by the Secretary (including appropriate consideration of the results of the surveys described in clause (i)), over a sustained period of time.
(5)
Emerging drug abuse issue
The term “emerging drug abuse issue” means a substance use disorder within an area involving—
(A)
a sudden increase in demand for particular drug abuse treatment services relative to previous demand; and
(B)
a lack of resources in the area to address the emerging problem.
(6)
Local drug crisis
The term “local drug crisis” means, with respect to the area served by an eligible entity—
(A)
a sudden increase in the abuse of opioids or methamphetamines, as documented by local data;
(B)
the abuse of prescription medications, specifically opioids or methamphetamines, that is significantly higher than the national average, over a sustained period of time, as documented by local data; or
(C)
a sudden increase in opioid-related deaths, as documented by local data.
(7)
Opioid
The term “opioid” means any drug having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.
(b)
Program authorized
The Director, in coordination with the Administrator, may make grants to eligible entities to implement comprehensive community-wide strategies that address local drug crises and emerging drug abuse issues within the area served by the eligible entity.
(c)
Application
(1)
In general
An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Director may require.
(2)
Criteria
As part of an application for a grant under this section, the Director shall require an eligible entity to submit a detailed, comprehensive, multisector plan for addressing the local drug crisis or emerging drug abuse issue within the area served by the eligible entity.
(d)
Use of funds
An eligible entity shall use a grant received under this section—
(1)
for programs designed to implement comprehensive community-wide prevention strategies to address the local drug crisis in the area served by the eligible entity, in accordance with the plan submitted under subsection (c)(2);
(2)
to obtain specialized training and technical assistance from the organization funded under section 4 of Public Law 107–82 (21 U.S.C. 1521 note); and
(3)
for programs designed to implement comprehensive community-wide strategies to address emerging drug abuse issues in the community.
(e)
Supplement not supplant
An eligible entity shall use Federal funds received under this section only to supplement the funds that would, in the absence of those Federal funds, be made available from other Federal and non-Federal sources for the activities described in this section, and not to supplant those funds.
(f)
Evaluation
A grant under this section shall be subject to the same evaluation requirements and procedures as the evaluation requirements and procedures imposed on the recipient of a grant under the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, and may also include an evaluation of the effectiveness at reducing abuse of opioids or methamphetamines.
(g)
Limitation on administrative expenses
Not more than 8 percent of the amounts made available to carry out this section for a fiscal year may be used to pay for administrative expenses.
(h)
Delegation authority
The Director may enter into an interagency agreement with the Administrator to delegate authority for the execution of grants and for such other activities as may be necessary to carry out this section.
(i)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.
