§ 3520A.
Chief Data Officer Council
(a)
Establishment.—
There is established in the Office of Management and Budget a Chief Data Officer Council (in this section referred to as the “Council”).
(b)
Purpose and Functions.—
The Council shall—
(1)
establish Governmentwide best practices for the use, protection, dissemination, and generation of data;
(2)
promote and encourage data sharing agreements between agencies;
(3)
identify ways in which agencies can improve upon the production of evidence for use in policymaking;
(4)
consult with the public and engage with private users of Government data and other stakeholders on how to improve access to data assets of the Federal Government; and
(5)
identify and evaluate new technology solutions for improving the collection and use of data.
(c)
Membership.—
(1)
In general.—
The Chief Data Officer of each agency shall serve as a member of the Council.
(2)
Chair.—
The Director shall select the Chair of the Council from among the members of the Council.
(3)
Additional members.—
The Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government shall serve as a member of the Council.
(4)
Ex officio member.—
The Director shall appoint a representative for all Chief Information Officers and Evaluation Officers, and such representative shall serve as an ex officio member of the Council.
(d)
Reports.—
The Council shall submit to the Director, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives a biennial report on the work of the Council.
(e)
Evaluation and Termination.—
(1)
GAO evaluation of council.—
Not later than 4 years after date of the enactment of this section, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report on whether the additional duties of the Council improved the use of evidence and program evaluation in the Federal Government.
(2)
Termination of council.—
The Council shall terminate and this section shall be repealed upon the expiration of the 2-year period that begins on the date the Comptroller General submits the report under paragraph (1) to Congress.
