§ 3343.
Transition provisions
(a)
Workforce development systems and investment activities
The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education shall take such actions as the Secretaries determine to be appropriate to provide for the orderly transition from any authority under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.) to any authority under part A of subchapter I. Such actions shall include the provision of guidance related to unified State planning, combined State planning, and the performance accountability system described in such part.
(b)
Workforce investment activities
The Secretary of Labor shall take such actions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to provide for the orderly transition from any authority under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to any authority under parts B through E of subchapter I.
(c)
Adult education and literacy programs
The Secretary of Education shall take such actions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to provide for the orderly transition from any authority under the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (20 U.S.C. 9201 et seq.), as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014, to any authority under the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, as amended by this Act.
(d)
Employment services activities
The Secretary of Labor shall take such actions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to provide for the orderly transition from any authority under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.), as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014, to any authority under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by this Act.
(e)
Vocational rehabilitation programs
The Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall take such actions as the Secretaries determine to be appropriate to provide for the orderly transition from any authority under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.), as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014, to any authority under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by this Act.
(f)
Regulations
(1)
Proposed regulations
Not later than 180 days after July 22, 2014, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate, shall develop and publish in the Federal Register proposed regulations relating to the transition to, and implementation of, this Act (including the amendments made by this Act).
(2)
Final regulations
Not later than 18 months after July 22, 2014, the Secretaries described in paragraph (1), as appropriate, shall develop and publish in the Federal Register final regulations relating to the transition to, and implementation of, this Act (including the amendments made by this Act).
(g)
Expenditure of funds during transition
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2) and in accordance with regulations developed under subsection (f), States, grant recipients, administrative entities, and other recipients of financial assistance under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 may expend funds received under such Act in order to plan and implement programs and activities authorized under this Act.
(2)
Additional requirements
Not more than 2 percent of any allotment to any State from amounts appropriated under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 for fiscal year 2014 may be made available to carry out activities authorized under paragraph (1) and not less than 50 percent of any amount used to carry out activities authorized under paragraph (1) shall be made available to local entities for the purposes of the activities described in such paragraph.
