§ 1463b.
National Coastal Resources Research and Development Institute
(a)
Establishment by Secretary; administration
The Secretary of Commerce shall provide for the establishment of a National Coastal Resources Research and Development Institute (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Institute”) to be administered by the Oregon State Marine Science Center.
(b)
Purposes of Institute
The Institute shall conduct research and carry out educational and demonstration projects designed to promote the efficient and responsible development of ocean and coastal resources, including arctic resources. Such projects shall be based on biological, geological, genetic, economic and other scientific research applicable to the purposes of this section and shall include studies on the economic diversification and environmental protection of the Nation’s coastal areas.
(c)
Determination of Institute policies
(1)
The policies of the Institute shall be determined by a Board of Governors composed of—
(A)
two representatives appointed by the Governor of Oregon;
(B)
one representative appointed by the Governor of Alaska;
(C)
one representative appointed by the Governor of Washington;
(D)
one representative appointed by the Governor of California; and
(E)
one representative appointed by the Governor of Hawaii.
(2)
Such policies shall include the selection, on a nationally competitive basis, of the research, projects, and studies to be supported by the Institute in accordance with the purposes of this section.
(d)
Establishment of Advisory Council; functions and composition
(1)
The Board of Governors shall establish an Advisory Council composed of specialists in ocean and coastal resources from the academic community.
(2)
To the maximum extent practicable, the Advisory Council shall be composed of such specialists from every coastal region of the Nation.
(3)
The Advisory Council shall provide such advice to the Board of Governors as such Board shall request, including recommendations regarding the support of research, projects, and studies in accordance with the purposes of this section.
(e)
Administration of Institute
The Institute shall be administered by a Director who shall be appointed by the Chancellor of the Oregon Board of Higher Education in consultation with the Board of Governors.
(f)
Evaluation of Institute by Secretary
The Secretary of Commerce shall conduct an ongoing evaluation of the activities of the Institute to ensure that funds received by the Institute under this section are used in a manner consistent with the provisions of this section.
(g)
Report to Secretary
The Institute shall report to the Secretary of Commerce on its activities within 2 years after July 17, 1984.
(h)
Access to Institute books, records, and documents
The Comptroller General of the United States, and any of his duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any books, documents, papers and records of the Institute that are pertinent to the funds received under this section.
(i)
Status of Institute employees
Employees of the Institute shall not, by reason of such employment, be considered to be employees of the Federal Government for any purpose.
(j)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purposes of this section, there are authorized to be appropriated in each fiscal year $5,000,000, commencing with fiscal year 1985.
