§ 410ffff–4.
Administration of historical park
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall administer the historical park in accordance with this subchapter and the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), and the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national historic significance, and for other purposes”, approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.), except that the Secretary shall take no action with respect to the 60 acres owned by the State of Connecticut within the boundaries of the historical park until such time as the State has transferred all right, title, and interests therein to the Secretary.
(b)
Cooperative agreements
(1)
The Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with the Weir Farm Heritage Trust, the State of Connecticut, the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and other organizations and groups in the development, presentation and funding of art exhibits, resident artist programs, and other appropriate activities related to the preservation, development, and use of the historical park.
(2)
The Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with the Nature Conservancy and the towns of Ridgefield and Wilton for the purpose of coordinating activities on the historical park with activities on the Nature Conservancy’s Weir Preserve and lands adjoining the historical park owned by the towns.
(c)
Exhibits
The Secretary may display, and accept for the purpose of display, works of art associated with J. Alden Weir, the Weir Farm, and the American Impressionist movement, as may be necessary for the interpretation of the historical park.
(d)
General management plan
Within 2 complete fiscal years after October 31, 1990, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a general management plan for the historical park. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 100502 of title 54 and other applicable law.
