§ 410ffff–2.
Establishment of Weir Farm National Historical Park
(a)
In general
There is established, as a unit of the National Park System, the Weir Farm National Historical Park in the State of Connecticut.
(b)
Description
The historical park shall consist of—
(1)
the approximately 2-acre core parcel containing the Weir house, studio, and barn;
(2)
the approximately 60 acres and improvements thereon owned by the State of Connecticut;
(3)
the approximately 2-acre parcel of land situated in the town of Wilton, Connecticut, designated as lot 18 on a map entitled “Revised Map of Section I, Thunder Lake at Wilton, Connecticut, Scale l’=100’, October 27, 1978, Ryan and Faulds Land Surveyors, Wilton, Connecticut”, that is on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Wilton, and therein numbered 3673; and
(4)
the approximately 0.9-acre western portion of a parcel of land situated in the town of Wilton, Connecticut, designated as Tall Oaks Road on the map referred to in paragraph (3).
(c)
General depiction
The parcels referred to in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b) are all as generally depicted on a map entitled “Boundary Map, Weir Farm National Historic Site, Fairfield County Connecticut”, dated June 1994. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
(d)
Acquisition of land for visitor and administrative facilities; limitations
(1)
Acquisition
(A)
In general
To preserve and maintain the historic setting and character of the historical park, the Secretary may acquire not more than 15 additional acres for the development of visitor and administrative facilities for the historical park.
(B)
Proximity
The property acquired under this subsection shall be within Fairfield County.
(C)
Management
The acquired property shall be included within the boundary of the historical park and shall be managed and maintained as part of the historical park.
(2)
Development
(A)
Maintaining natural character
The Secretary shall keep development of the property acquired under paragraph (1) to a minimum so that the character of the acquired property will be similar to the natural and undeveloped landscape of the property described in subsection (b).
(B)
Treatment of previously developed property
Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall either prevent the Secretary from acquiring property under paragraph (1) that, prior to the Secretary’s acquisition, was developed in a manner inconsistent with subparagraph (A), or require the Secretary to remediate such previously developed property to reflect the natural character described in subparagraph (A).
(3)
Agreements
Prior to and as a prerequisite to any development of visitor and administrative facilities on the property acquired under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall enter into one or more agreements with the local governmental entity that, in accordance with applicable State law, has jurisdiction over any property acquired under paragraph (1)(A) for the purposes of—
(A)
developing the parking, visitor, and administrative facilities for the historical park; and
(B)
managing bus traffic to the historical park and limiting parking for large tour buses to an offsite location.
