§ 410hhh–4.
Baca National Wildlife Refuge, Colorado
(a)
Establishment and purpose
(1)
Establishment
(A)
In general
When the Secretary determines that sufficient land has been acquired to constitute an area that can be efficiently managed as a National Wildlife Refuge, the Secretary shall establish the Baca National Wildlife Refuge, as generally depicted on the map.
(B)
Effective date
The establishment of the refuge under subparagraph (A) shall be effective upon publication of a notice of the Secretary’s determination in the Federal Register.
(2)
Purpose
The purpose of the Baca National Wildlife Refuge shall be to restore, enhance, and maintain wetland, upland, riparian, and other habitats for native wildlife, plant, and fish species in the San Luis Valley.
(b)
Availability of map
The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
(c)
Administration
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall administer all lands and interests therein acquired within the boundaries of the national wildlife refuge in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.) and the Act of September 28, 1962 (16 U.S.C. 460k et seq.) (commonly known as the Refuge Recreation Act).
(2)
Requirements
In administering the Baca National Wildlife Refuge, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable—
(A)
emphasize migratory bird conservation; and
(B)
take into consideration the role of the Refuge in broader landscape conservation efforts.
(d)
Protection of water resources
In administering water resources for the national wildlife refuge, the Secretary shall—
(1)
protect and maintain irrigation water rights necessary for the protection of monument, park, preserve, and refuge resources and uses;
(2)
minimize, to the extent consistent with the protection of national wildlife refuge resources, adverse impacts on other water users; and
(3)
subject to any agreement in existence as of March 11, 2009, and to the extent consistent with the purposes of the Refuge, use decreed water rights on the Refuge in approximately the same manner that the water rights have been used historically.
