§ 410iii–7.
Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park Advisory Commission
(a)
Establishment
There is established the Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park Advisory Commission.
(b)
Duties
The Commission shall—
(1)
advise the Secretary in the preparation and implementation of a general management plan described in section 410iii–6 of this title; and
(2)
advise the Secretary with respect to the identification of sites of significance outside the Park boundary deemed necessary to fulfill the purposes of this subchapter.
(c)
Membership
(1)
Composition
The Commission shall be composed of 15 members appointed by the Secretary so as to include the following:
(A)
1 representative from the Commonwealth of Virginia.
(B)
1 representative each from the local governments of Strasburg, Middletown, Frederick County, Shenandoah County, and Warren County.
(C)
2 representatives of private landowners within the Park.
(D)
1 representative from a citizen interest group.
(E)
1 representative from the Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation.
(F)
1 representative from Belle Grove, Incorporated.
(G)
1 representative from the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
(H)
1 representative from the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation.
(I)
1 ex-officio representative from the National Park Service.
(J)
1 ex-officio representative from the United States Forest Service.
(2)
Chairperson
The Chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by the members to serve a term of one year renewable for one additional year.
(3)
Vacancies
A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
(4)
Terms of service
(A)
In general
Each member shall be appointed for a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for not more than 2 successive terms.
(B)
Initial members
Of the members first appointed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall appoint—
(i)
4 members for a term of 1 year;
(ii)
5 members for a term of 2 years; and
(iii)
6 members for a term of 3 years.
(5)
Extended service
A member may serve after the expiration of that member’s term until a successor has taken office.
(6)
Majority rule
The Commission shall act and advise by affirmative vote of a majority of its members.
(7)
Meetings
The Commission shall meet at least quarterly at the call of the chairperson or a majority of the members of the Commission.
(8)
Quorum
8 members shall constitute a quorum.
(d)
Compensation
Members shall serve without pay. Members who are full-time officers or employees of the United States, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any political subdivision thereof shall receive no additional pay on account of their service on the Commission.
(e)
Travel expenses
While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of service for the Commission, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.
(f)
Hearings; public involvement
The Commission may, for purposes of carrying out this subchapter, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such public testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission considers appropriate. The Commission may not issue subpoenas or exercise any subpoena authority.
