§ 410nnn–1.
Palo Alto Battlefield National Historical Park
(a)
Establishment
In order to preserve for the education, benefit, and inspiration of present and future generations the nationally significant site of the first battle of the Mexican-American War, and to provide for its interpretation in such manner as to portray the battle and the Mexican-American War and its related political, diplomatic, military and social causes and consequences, there is hereby established the Palo Alto Battlefield National Historical Park in the State of Texas (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “historical park”).
(b)
Boundary
(1)
In general
The historical park shall consist of approximately 3,400 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled “Palo Alto Battlefield National Historical Park”, numbered 469–80,002, and dated March 1991. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
(2)
Additional land
(A)
In general
(i)
In addition to the land described in paragraph (1), the historical park shall consist of—
(I)
the approximately 34 acres of land, as generally depicted on the map entitled “Palo Alto Battlefield NHS Proposed Boundary Expansion”, numbered 469/80,012, and dated May 21, 2008; and
(II)
on the date that such land is donated to the United States, the approximately 166.44 acres of land generally depicted on the map entitled “PALO ALTO BATTLEFIELD NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK Proposed Boundary Addition, Fort Brown Unit”, numbered 469/143,589, and dated April 2018.
(ii)
Before accepting any donated land described in this subparagraph, the Secretary shall complete a boundary study analyzing the feasibility of adding the land to the national historical park.
(iii)
If a boundary study completed under clause (ii) finds that acceptance of the donated land is feasible and appropriate, the Secretary may accept such land and administer the land as part of the historical park after providing notice of such finding to Congress.
(B)
Availability of maps
The maps described in subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
(3)
Legal description
Not later than 6 months after the addition of lands to the historic park boundary, the Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Secretary”) shall file a legal description of the historical park with the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. Such legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this subchapter, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographic errors in such legal description and in the maps referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2). The legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary may, from time to time, make minor revisions in the boundary of the historical park.
