§ 410rr–7.
Glorieta Unit of Pecos National Historical Park
(a)
Establishment
In order to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, there is hereby established the Glorieta Unit of the Pecos National Historical Park (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Glorieta Unit”). The Glorieta Unit shall be comprised of approximately 682 acres as generally depicted on the maps entitled “Glorieta Unit—Pecos National Historical Park”, numbered 430–80,031, and dated July 1990. The boundary of Pecos National Historical Park, established by title II of Public Law 101–313 (104 Stat. 278) [16 U.S.C. 410rr et seq.], is hereby modified to include the Glorieta Unit.
(b)
Administration
The Secretary shall administer the Glorieta Unit to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, in accordance with the provisions of this section, applicable provisions of title II of Public Law 101–313, and provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 U.S.C. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461–7).
(c)
Acquisition
The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands, waters, and interests therein within the boundaries of the Glorieta Unit by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. Lands may not be acquired for purposes of the Glorieta Unit without the consent of the owner thereof unless the Secretary determines that, in his judgment, the property is subject to, or threatened with, uses which are having, or would have, an adverse impact on the Glorieta Unit or on the management of the Glorieta Unit.
(d)
Transfer
Lands identified on the maps referred to in subsection (a) as being within unit number 26 in the “Historic Zone” are hereby transferred from the administration of the Secretary of Agriculture to the administration of the Secretary of the Interior, to be managed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(e)
Management plan
The Secretary shall incorporate management direction for the Glorieta Unit into the general management plan for the Pecos National Historical Park, including the identification of routes of travel associated with the Battle of Glorieta.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
