§ 410tt–3.
Administration
(a)
In general
The park shall be administered in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the national park system, including, but not limited to, the Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2–4) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461–467). In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and such generally applicable provisions of law, the provisions of this subchapter shall govern.
(b)
Cooperative agreements
The Secretary, after consulting with the Salt River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, Commission (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Commission”) established by section 410tt–4 of this title, is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the United States Virgin Islands, or any political subdivision thereof, for the management of the park and for other purposes.
(c)
General management plan
(1)
Not later than 3 years after the date funds are made available for this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, and with public involvement, shall develop and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives a general management plan for the park. The general management plan shall describe the appropriate protection, management, uses, and development of the park consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.
(2)
The general management plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(A)
Plans for implementation of a continuing program of interpretation and visitor education about the resources and values of the park.
(B)
Proposals for visitor use facilities to be developed for the park.
(C)
Plans for management of the natural and cultural resources of the park, with particular emphasis on the preservation of both the cultural and natural resources and long-term scientific study of terrestrial, marine, and archeological resources, giving high priority to the enforcement of the provisions of the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic Preservation Act 1 within the park. The natural and cultural resources management plans shall be prepared in consultation with the Virgin Islands Division of Archeology and Historic Preservation.
(D)
Proposals for assessing the potential operation and supply of park concessions by qualified Virgin Islands-owned businesses.
(E)
Plans for the training of personnel in accordance with subsection (e).
(d)
Training assistance
During the 10-year period beginning on February 24, 1992, the Secretary shall, subject to appropriations, provide the funds for the employees of the Government of the United States Virgin Islands directly engaged in the joint management of the park and shall implement, in consultation with the Government of the United States Virgin Islands, a program under which Virgin Islands citizens may be trained in all phases of park operations and management: Provided, however, That in no event shall the Secretary provide more than 50 percent of the funding for such purposes. A primary objective of the program shall be to train employees in the skills necessary for operating and managing a Virgin Islands Territorial Park System.
