§ 430f–13.
Shiloh National Military Park boundary adjustment
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Affiliated area
The term “affiliated area” means the Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield established as an affiliated area of the National Park System by subsection (c)(1).
(2)
Park
The term “Park” means Shiloh National Military Park, a unit of the National Park System.
(b)
Areas to be added to Shiloh National Military Park
(1)
Additional areas
The boundary of the Park is modified to include the areas that are generally depicted on the map entitled “Shiloh National Military Park, Proposed Boundary Adjustment”, numbered 304/80,011, and dated July 2014, and which are comprised of the following:
(A)
Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
(B)
Russell House Battlefield.
(C)
Davis Bridge Battlefield.
(2)
Acquisition authority
The Secretary may acquire the land described in paragraph (1) by donation, purchase from willing sellers with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(3)
Administration
Any land acquired under this subsection shall be administered as part of the Park.
(c)
Establishment of affiliated area
(1)
In general
Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield in the State of Tennessee is established as an affiliated area of the National Park System.
(2)
Description of affiliated area
The affiliated area shall consist of the area generally depicted within the “Proposed Boundary” on the map entitled “Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield, Proposed Boundary”, numbered 903/80,073, and dated July 2014.
(3)
Administration
The affiliated area shall be managed in accordance with—
(A)
this section; and
(B)
any law generally applicable to units of the National Park System.
(4)
Management entity
The City of Parkers Crossroads and the Tennessee Historical Commission shall jointly be the management entity for the affiliated area.
(5)
Cooperative agreements
The Secretary may provide technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with the management entity for the purpose of providing financial assistance for the marketing, marking, interpretation, and preservation of the affiliated area.
(6)
Limited role of the Secretary
Nothing in this section authorizes the Secretary to acquire property at the affiliated area or to assume overall financial responsibility for the operation, maintenance, or management of the affiliated area.
(7)
General management plan
(A)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the management entity, shall develop a general management plan for the affiliated area in accordance with section 100502 of title 54.
(B)
Transmittal
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate the general management plan developed under subparagraph (A).
