§ 459b–7.
Cape Cod National Seashore Advisory Commission
(a)
Establishment; termination
There is established a Cape Cod National Seashore Advisory Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”). The Commission shall terminate September 26, 2029.
(b)
Membership; term
The Commission shall be composed of ten members each appointed for a term of two years by the Secretary as follows:
(1)
Six members to be appointed from recommendations made by each of the boards of selectmen of the towns referred to in section 459b of this title, one member from the recommendations made by each such board;
(2)
One member to be appointed from recommendations of the county commissioners of Barnstable County, Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
(3)
Two members to be appointed from recommendations of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and
(4)
One member to be designated by the Secretary.
(c)
Chairman; vacancies
The Secretary shall designate one member to be Chairman. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
(d)
Compensation and expenses
A member of the Commission shall serve without compensation as such. The Secretary is authorized to pay the expenses reasonably incurred by the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under sections 459b to 459b–8 of this title upon vouchers signed by the Chairman.
(e)
Majority vote
The Commission established by this section shall act and advise by affirmative vote of a majority of the members thereof.
(f)
Consultation of Secretary with Commission
The Secretary or his designee shall, from time to time, consult with the members of the Commission with respect to matters relating to the development of Cape Cod National Seashore and shall consult with the members with respect to carrying out the provisions of sections 459b–3 and 459b–4 of this title.
(g)
Exemption from other provisions of law
(1)
Any member of the Advisory Commission appointed under sections 459b to 459b–8 of this title shall be exempted, with respect to such appointment, from the operation of sections 281, 283, 284, and 1914 of title 18 and section 190 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 99) except as otherwise specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(2)
The exemption granted by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not extend—
(i)
to the receipt or payment of salary in connection with the appointee’s Government service from any sources other than the private employer of the appointee at the time of his appointment; or
(ii)
during the period of such appointment, and the further period of two years after the termination thereof, to the prosecution or participation in the prosecution, by any person so appointed, of any claim against the Government involving any matter concerning which the appointee had any responsibility arising out of his appointment during the period of such appointment.
