§ 459j–4.
Administration, protection, and development
(a)
Conservation and management of natural resources
The seashore shall be administered, protected, and developed in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2–4), as amended and supplemented, except that any other statutory authority available to the Secretary for the conservation management of natural resources may be utilized to the extent he finds such authority will further the purposes of sections 459j to 459j–8 of this title.
(b)
Administration of lands in Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge
Notwithstanding any other provisions of sections 459j to 459j–8 of this title, lands and waters in the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge as described in subsection (c)(2) of this section which are part of the seashore shall be administered for refuge purposes through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service pursuant to the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act, as amended (80 Stat. 926; 16 U.S.C. 668dd–668ee), except that the Secretary may utilize such additional authority as may be available to him for the conservation and management of wildlife and natural resources, the development of outdoor recreation opportunities, and interpretive education as he deems appropriate, consistent with the preservation of natural and wildlife values.
(c)
Division of management authority between National Park Service and United States Fish and Wildlife Service
The Secretary shall cause to be issued a well defined division of management authority between the National Park Service and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. It is the intent and purpose of sections 459j to 459j–8 of this title that such management authority, generally, shall be as follows:
(1)
The National Park Service shall administer those lands and waters described as follows: beginning at the intersection of State Highway 3 and State Road 402; thence easterly along State Road 402 and continuing easterly in a straight line to a point one-half mile offshore in the Atlantic Ocean, following the southern boundary of the seashore created in section 1; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the seashore created in section 1, which line is at each point one-half mile distance from the high water mark, to Bethune Beach; thence inland in a generally, westerly direction through Turner Flats and Shipyard Canal; thence northwesterly to the Intracoastal Waterway; thence southerly along the Intracoastal Waterway to the boundary of the Kennedy Space Center; then southwesterly to United States Highway 1; thence southerly along State Highway 3 to the northern boundary of H. M. Gomez Grant; thence easterly along the northern boundary of H. M. Gomez Grant and continuing easterly in a straight line to a point of intersection with the line between the marsh and the dunes; thence southerly along the line between the marsh and the dunes to a point approximately one-half mile north of the southern boundary of the seashore created in section 1; thence westerly in a straight line to connect with and to follow the Government Railroad to its intersection with State Highway 3; thence southerly along State Highway 3 to the point of beginning. The portion of land bounded by the northern boundary of the H. M. Gomez Grant is hereby transferred to the Secretary of the Interior and may be used for the purpose of establishing such facilities as are needed for the administration of the seashore, for the construction of the principal visitor center which shall be designated as the “Spessard L. Holland Visitor Center”, and for a central access to the seashore: Provided, however, That the Secretary of the Interior, upon the request of the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, shall close this area or any part thereof to the public when necessary for space operations. In administering the shoreline and adjacent lands the Secretary shall retain such lands in their natural and primitive condition, shall prohibit vehicular traffic on the beach except for administrative purposes, and shall develop only those facilities which he deems essential for public health and safety.
(2)
The United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall administer the remaining lands described in section 459j of this title.
