§ 460aaa–7.
Grand Island Advisory Commission
(a)
Establishment
Subject to appointments as provided in subsection (b), there is established a Grand Island Advisory Commission (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Commission”) comprised of 12 members for the purpose of advising the Secretary on the preparation of the management plan which is provided for in section 460aaa–6 of this title.
(b)
Appointment
(1)
Commission members shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows:
(A)
Three non-voting members, who shall be employees of the Forest Service including the Forest Supervisor of the Hiawatha National Forest.
(B)
One member who shall be a resident of Munising, Michigan, who is not a Forest Service employee.
(C)
Two members who shall be recreational users of Grand Island who are not Forest Service employees.
(D)
One member from nominations made by the Alger County Board of Commissioners who is a member of such board.
(E)
One member from nominations made by the Alger County Economic Development Corporation who is a member of such corporation.
(F)
One member from nominations made by the Grand Island Association who is a member of such association.
(G)
One member from nominations made by the private landowners of Grand Island who is a private landowner on Grand Island.
(H)
One member from nominations made by the Grand Island Township Board who is a member of such board.
(I)
The Munising city manager, upon accepting the invitation of the Secretary.
(2)
Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(c)
Quorum
A quorum shall be six members. The operations of the Commission shall not be impaired by the fact that a member has not been appointed as long as a quorum has been attained.
(d)
Procedures
The Commission shall elect a Chairman and establish such rules and procedures as it deems necessary or desirable.
(e)
Consultation
The Secretary shall consult with the Commission on a periodic and regular basis with respect to the management plan.
(f)
Pay
(1)
Members of the Commission who are not full-time officers or employees of the United States shall serve without pay.
(2)
Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or employees of the United States shall receive no additional pay by reason of their service on the Commission.
(g)
Proposals for non-Federal development on Federal land
The Commission shall recommend proposals for non-Federal development on the 55 acres described in section 460aaa–6(b)(2) of this title. It shall submit any such proposals to the Secretary for approval, rejection, or revision. The Secretary shall include in the management plan a development proposal submitted by the Commission or arrived at by any other means available to the Secretary.
(h)
Termination
The Commission shall cease to exist on the date upon which the management plan is adopted.
