§ 460eee–1.
Administration
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall administer the recreation area in accordance with this Act and the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the national park system, including the Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2–4), and the Act of August 7, 1946 (60 Stat. 885). In the administration of such recreation area, the Secretary may utilize such statutory authority as may be available to him for the protection of natural and cultural resources as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(b)
Operation of Canadian River Project
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect or interfere with the authority of the Secretary under the Act of December 29, 1950 (Public Law 81–898; 43 U.S.C. 600b et seq.), to operate Sanford Dam and Lake Meredith in accordance with and for the purposes set forth in that Act.
(c)
Land acquisition
Within the boundary of the recreation area, the Secretary may acquire lands and interests in lands by purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer without reimbursement from any Federal agency.
(d)
Cultural resources
The Secretary shall conduct a survey of the cultural resources in the immediate vicinity of the recreation area. The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with public or private entities, including landowners, for the purpose of conducting the survey required by this subsection. Not later than three years after the date on which funds have been made available, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate on the results of the survey required by this subsection.
(e)
Hunting and fishing
(1)
The Secretary shall permit hunting and fishing on lands and waters under the Secretary’s jurisdiction within the recreation area in accordance with applicable Federal and State law. The Secretary may designate zones where, and establish periods when, hunting or fishing will not be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, fish and wildlife management, or public use and enjoyment.
(2)
Except in emergencies any regulations issued by the Secretary under this subsection shall be put into effect only after consultation with the appropriate State agencies responsible for hunting and fishing activities.
(f)
Cooperative agreements
For purposes of administering the recreation area, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with any Federal agency, the State of Texas, or any political subdivision thereof, including the Canadian River Municipal Water Authority, for the rendering, on a reimbursable basis, of rescue, firefighting, law enforcement, fire preventive assistance, and other needs. The Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement with the city of Fritch, Texas, to develop and operate a joint venture information center. Federal funds may be expended on non-Federal lands and improvements through cooperative agreements for the purpose of this section on a 50–50 matching basis.
