§ 460lll–45.
Transfer of personal property
(a)
Subject property
(1)
Inventory
Not later than 60 days after the date of transfer pursuant to section 460lll–41 of this title, the Tennessee Valley Authority shall provide the Secretary with an inventory of all property and facilities at the Recreation Area.
(2)
Availability for transfer
(A)
In general
All Tennessee Valley Authority property associated with the administration of the Recreation Area, including any property purchased with Federal funds appropriated for the management of the Tennessee Valley Authority land, shall be available for transfer to the Secretary.
(B)
Property included
Property under subparagraph (A) includes buildings, office furniture and supplies, computers, office equipment, buildings, vehicles, tools, equipment, maintenance supplies, boats, engines, and publications.
(3)
Exclusion of property
At the request of the authorized representative of the Tennessee Valley Authority, the Secretary may exclude movable property from transfer based on a showing by the Tennessee Valley Authority that the property is vital to the mission of the Tennessee Valley Authority and cannot be replaced in a cost-effective manner, if the Secretary determines that the property is not needed for management of the Recreation Area.
(b)
Designation
Pursuant to such procedures as may be prescribed in the memorandum of agreement entered into under section 460lll–43 of this title, the Secretary shall identify and designate, in writing, all Tennessee Valley Authority property to be transferred to the Secretary.
(c)
Facilitation of transfer
The Tennessee Valley Authority shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use current personnel to facilitate the transfer of necessary property and facilities to the Secretary, including replacement of signs and insignia, repainting of vehicles, printing of public information, and training of new personnel. Funding for these costs shall be derived from funding described in section 460lll–49 of this title.
(d)
Surplus property
(1)
Disposition
Any personal property, including structures and facilities, that the Secretary determines cannot be efficiently managed and maintained either by the Forest Service or by lease or permit to other persons may be declared excess by the Secretary and—
(A)
sold by the Secretary on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe to achieve the maximum benefit to the Federal Government; or
(B)
disposed of under chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41.
(2)
Deposit of proceeds
All net proceeds from the disposal of any property shall be deposited into the Fund established by section 460lll–31 of this title.
