§ 460lll–22.
Advisory Board
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of transfer pursuant to section 460lll–41 of this title, the Secretary shall establish the Land Between the Lakes Advisory Board.
(b)
Membership
The Advisory Board shall be composed of 13 members, of whom—
(1)
4 individuals shall be appointed by the Secretary, including—
(A)
2 residents of the State of Kentucky; and
(B)
2 residents of the State of Tennessee;
(2)
2 individuals shall be appointed by the Kentucky Fish and Wildlife Commissioner or designee;
(3)
1 individual shall be appointed by the Tennessee Fish and Wildlife Commission or designee; and
(4)
2 individuals shall be appointed by appropriate officials of each of the 3 counties containing the Recreation Area.
(c)
Term
(1)
In general
The term of a member of the Advisory Board shall be 5 years.
(2)
Nonconsecutive terms
Members of the Advisory Board may serve multiple terms, but may not serve consecutive terms.
(d)
Chairperson
The Regional Forester shall serve as chairperson of the Advisory Board.
(e)
Rules of procedure
The Secretary shall prescribe the rules of procedure for the Advisory Board.
(f)
Functions
The Advisory Board shall advise the Secretary on—
(1)
means of promoting public participation for the land and resource management plan for the Recreation Area;
(2)
environmental education;
(3)
an annual work plan for recreation and environment education areas in the Recreation Area, including the heritage program, with the nonappropriated amounts in the Land Between the Lakes Management Fund;
(4)
an annual forest management and harvest plan for the Recreation Area; and
(5)
the Land Between the Lakes Management Fund.
(g)
Meetings
(1)
Frequency
The Advisory Board shall meet at least twice each year.
(2)
Public meeting
A meeting of the Advisory Board shall be open to the general public.
(3)
Notice of meetings
The chairperson, through the placement of notices in local news media, on a public website of the Department of Agriculture, and by other appropriate means shall give 2 weeks’ public notice of each meeting of the Advisory Board.
(4)
Minutes
The Secretary shall publish the minutes of each meeting of the Advisory Board on a public website of the Department of Agriculture.
(h)
No termination
Section 1013(a) of title 5 shall not apply to the Advisory Board.
