§ 460ppp–3.
Management
(a)
Management
The Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, shall manage the conservation area in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances its resources and values, including those resources and values specified in subsection 460ppp–2(a) of this title, in accordance with this subchapter, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and other applicable provisions of law.
(b)
Access
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall maintain adequate access for the reasonable use and enjoyment of the conservation area.
(2)
Private land
The Secretary shall provide reasonable access to privately owned land or interests in land within the boundaries of the conservation area.
(3)
Existing public roads
The Secretary is authorized to maintain existing public access within the boundaries of the conservation area in a manner consistent with the purposes for which the conservation area was established.
(c)
Uses
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall only allow such uses of the conservation area as the Secretary finds will further the purposes for which the conservation area is established.
(2)
Off-highway vehicle use
Except where needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency, use of motorized vehicles in the conservation area shall be permitted only on roads and trails and in other areas designated for use of motorized vehicles as part of the management plan prepared pursuant to subsection (e).
(3)
Permitted events
The Secretary may continue to permit large-scale events in defined, low impact areas of the Black Rock Desert playa in the conservation area in accordance with the management plan prepared pursuant to subsection (e).
(d)
Hunting, trapping, and fishing
Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to diminish the jurisdiction of the State of Nevada with respect to fish and wildlife management, including regulation of hunting and fishing, on public lands within the conservation area.
(e)
Management plan
Within three years following December 21, 2000, the Secretary shall develop a comprehensive resource management plan for the long-term protection and management of the conservation area. The plan shall be developed with full public participation and shall describe the appropriate uses and management of the conservation area consistent with the provisions of this subchapter. The plan may incorporate appropriate decisions contained in any current management or activity plan for the area and may use information developed in previous studies of the lands within or adjacent to the conservation area.
(f)
Grazing
Where the Secretary of the Interior currently permits livestock grazing in the conservation area, such grazing shall be allowed to continue subject to all applicable laws, regulations, and executive orders.
(g)
Visitor service facilities
The Secretary is authorized to establish, in cooperation with other public or private entities as the Secretary may deem appropriate, visitor service facilities for the purpose of providing information about the historical, cultural, ecological, recreational, and other resources of the conservation area.
(h)
Road maintenance
Within the conservation area the Secretary may permit the use of gravel pits for the maintenance of roads within the conservation area under the Materials Act of 1947 (30 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) to the extent consistent with this subchapter and subject to such regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary considers necessary.
