§ 460ss–3.
Klamath River Basin Fisheries Task Force
(a)
Establishment
There is established a Klamath River Basin Fisheries Task Force (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Task Force”).
(b)
Functions
The Task Force—
(1)
shall assist the Secretary in the formulation, coordination, and implementation of the program;
(2)
shall assist, and coordinate its activities with, Federal, State, and local governmental or private anadromous fish restoration projects within the Area;
(3)
shall conduct any other activity that is necessary to accomplish the objectives of the program; and
(4)
may act as an advisor to the Council.
(c)
Membership and appointment
The Task Force is composed of 14 members as follows:
(1)
A representative, who shall be appointed by the Governor of California, of each of the following:
(A)
The commercial salmon fishing industry.
(B)
The in-river sport fishing community.
(C)
The California Department of Fish and Game.
(2)
A representative of the Hoopa Indian Tribe who shall be appointed by the Hoopa Valley Business Council.
(3)
A representative of the Department of the Interior who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
(4)
A representative of the National Marine Fisheries Service who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce.
(5)
A representative of the Department of Agriculture who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
(6)
A representative of the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife who shall be appointed by the Governor of Oregon.
(7)
One individual who shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Del Norte County, California.
(8)
One individual who shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Siskiyou County, California.
(9)
One individual who shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Humboldt County, California.
(10)
One individual who shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Trinity County, California.
(11)
A representative of the Karuk Tribe, who shall be appointed by the governing body of the Tribe,
(12)
A representative of the Yurok Tribe, who shall be appointed by the Secretary until such time as the Yurok Tribe is organized upon which time the Yurok Tribe shall appoint such representative beginning with the first appointment ordinarily occurring after the Yurok Tribe is organized
(d)
Council membership not a bar to Task Force appointment
An individual who is a member of the Council is not ineligible for appointment as a member of the Task Force.
(e)
Terms
(1)
In general
The term of a member of the Task Force is 4 years.
(2)
Service
Members of the Task Force serve at the pleasure of the appointing authorities.
(3)
Vacancies
Any vacancy on the Task Force shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A member may serve after the expiration of his term until his successor has taken office.
(f)
Transaction of business
(1)
Procedures
The Task Force shall establish practices and procedures for the carrying out of its functions under subsection (b). The procedures shall include the requirement that a quorum of the Task Force must be present before business may be transacted.
(2)
Chairman
The members of the Task Force shall select a Chairman from among its members.
(3)
Meetings
The Task Force shall meet at the call of the Chairman or upon the request of a majority of its members.
(g)
Staff and administration
(1)
Administrative support
The Secretary and the Director of the California Department of Fish and Game shall provide the Task Force with the administrative and technical support services necessary for the effective functioning of the Task Force.
(2)
Information
The Secretary and the Director of the California Department of Fish and Game shall furnish the members of the Task Force with relevant information concerning the Area.
(3)
Organization
The Task Force shall determine its organization, and prescribe the practices and procedures for carrying out its functions under subsection (b).
(h)
Members who are Federal or State employees
Any Task Force member who is an officer or employee of the United States, the State of California, or the State of Oregon at the time of appointment to the Task Force shall cease to be a member of the Task Force within 14 days of the date on which he ceases to be so employed.
(i)
Expenses
(1)
Travel expenses
While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Task Force, Task Force members shall be allowed travel expenses, including a per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed travel expenses under section 5703 of title 5. Any Task Force member who is an employee of an agency or governmental unit and is eligible for travel expenses from that agency or unit for performing services for the Task Force is not eligible for travel expenses under this paragraph.
(2)
Limitation on spending authority
No money authorized to be appropriated under section 460ss–5 of this title may be used to reimburse any agency or governmental unit (whose employees are Task Force members) for time spent by any such employee performing Task Force duties.
(j)
Membership increase upon program expansion
At such time as the program is expanded to include portions of the Klamath River upstream from the Iron Gate dam, membership on the Task Force shall be increased to include the following—
(1)
One individual who shall be appointed by the Commissioners of Klamath County, Oregon.
(2)
A representative of the Klamath Tribe, who shall be appointed by the governing body of the Tribe.
