§ 460uu–47.
Access
(a)
Nonexclusive access by Indians for cultural and religious purposes
In recognition of the past use of portions of the monument and the conservation area by Indian people for traditional cultural and religious purposes, the Secretary shall assure nonexclusive access to the monument and the conservation area by Indian people for traditional cultural and religious purposes, including the harvesting of pine nuts. Such access shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of August 11, 1978 (42 U.S.C. 1996 [, 1996a]), and (with respect to areas designated as wilderness) the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 890) [16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.].
(b)
Recommendations from Indian leaders regarding access and protection of cultural and religious sites
In preparing the plans for the monument and the conservation area pursuant to section 460uu–41 of this title, the Secretary shall request that the Governor of the Pueblo of Acoma and the chief executive officers of other appropriate Indian tribes make recommendations on methods of—
(1)
assuring access pursuant to subsection (a) of this section;
(2)
enhancing the privacy of traditional cultural and religious activities in the monument and the conservation area; and
(3)
protecting traditional cultural and religious sites in the monument and the conservation area.
(c)
Temporary closure to public of lands for protection of religious activities
In order to implement this section and in furtherance of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act [42 U.S.C. 1996, 1996a], the Secretary, upon the request of an appropriate Indian tribe, may from time to time temporarily close to general public use one or more specific portions of the monument or the conservation area in order to protect the privacy of religious activities in such areas by Indian people. Any such closure shall be made so as to affect the smallest practicable area for the minimum period necessary for such purposes. Not later than seven days after the initiation of any such closure, the Secretary shall provide written notification of such action to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee of the United States Senate and the Natural Resources Committee of the House of Representatives.
(d)
Advisory committee; membership
The Secretary is authorized to establish an advisory committee to advise the Secretary concerning the implementation of this section. Any such advisory committee shall include representatives of the Pueblo of Acoma, the Pueblo of Zuni, other appropriate Indian tribes and other persons or groups interested in the implementation of this section.
