§ 460vv–13.
Planning
(a)
Forest management plan
The Secretary shall amend the Ouachita National Forest land and resource management plan to include provisions regarding the wilderness areas, the botanical areas, the national recreation area, the national scenic and wildlife area, and the national scenic area designated by this subchapter. The amendment shall further the purposes for these areas as specified in this subchapter and shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of the National Forest Management Act, including provisions for public involvement. The Secretary shall consult with the local advisory committee established under section 460vv–12 of this title regarding the development and implementation of the amendment required under this subsection.
(b)
Tourism and recreation
The plan shall include a section with provisions to promote tourism and recreation in ways consistent with the purposes for which the wilderness areas, the botanical areas, the national recreation area, the national scenic and wildlife area and the national scenic area are designated.
(c)
Local advisory group
No later than 90 days after October 18, 1988, the Secretary shall designate a special advisory group from the local area in which the Ouachita National Forest is located to assist in the preparation of the tourism and recreation section of the amendment as required under subsection (b). The Secretary shall request the group to submit to the Secretary, within 12 months after its designation as an advisory group, a draft for such section. No later than 90 days after receiving such draft, the Secretary shall make any revisions and provide them to the group for review. The Secretary shall allow at least 60 days for the group to submit to the Secretary its comments on the revisions. The Secretary shall attempt to resolve any differences prior to his approval or disapproval of the amendment to the forest plan.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are hereby authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $15,000,000 for tourism and recreation improvements related to the Winding Stair Mountain National Recreation and Wilderness Area in Ouachita National Forest in Le Flore County, Oklahoma.
(e)
Implementation
The Secretary is authorized and encouraged to seek local nonprofit entities and the private sector for development of tourism and recreation initiatives in implementing the tourism and recreation section of the plan.
