§ 460ww–5.
Advisory Committee
(a)
Establishment
There is hereby established the Gauley River National Recreation Area Advisory Committee (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “Advisory Committee”). The Advisory Committee shall be composed of fifteen members appointed by the Secretary to serve for terms of two years. Any member of the Advisory Committee may serve after the expiration of his term until a successor is appointed. Any member of the Advisory Committee may be appointed to serve more than one term. The Secretary or his designee shall serve as Chairman.
(b)
Management and development issues
The Secretary, or his designee, shall meet on a regular basis and consult with the Advisory Committee on matters relating to development of a management plan for the recreation area and on implementation of such plan.
(c)
Expenses
Members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation as such, but the Secretary may pay expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out their responsibilities under this Act on vouchers signed by the Chairman.
(d)
Membership
The Secretary shall appoint members to the Advisory Committee as follows:
(1)
one member to represent other departments or agencies of the United States administering lands affected by the recreation area, to be appointed from among persons nominated by the head of such department or agency;
(2)
two members to represent the State Department of Natural Resources, to be appointed from among persons nominated by the Governor of the State of West Virginia;
(3)
one member to represent the State Department of Commerce to be appointed from among persons nominated by the Governor of West Virginia;
(4)
three members to represent the commercial whitewater rafting industry in West Virginia;
(5)
one member to represent noncommercial whitewater boating organizations;
(6)
one member to represent conservation organizations in West Virginia;
(7)
one member to represent individuals engaged in game fishing in West Virginia;
(8)
one member to represent the Nicholas County Chamber of Commerce;
(9)
one member to represent the Fayette County Chamber of Commerce;
(10)
one member to represent recreational users of Summersville Lake; and
(11)
two members to represent local citizens or citizens groups which are concerned with the Gauley River or own lands included within the boundaries of the recreation area.
(e)
Termination; charter
The Advisory Committee shall terminate on the date ten years after October 26, 1988, notwithstanding chapter 10 of title 5. The provisions of section 1013(b) of title 5 (relating to the charter of the Committee), are hereby waived with respect to this Advisory Committee.
