§ 460x–7.
Acquisition of property
(a)
Authority of Secretary; manner of acquisition; procedure for lands partly within designated area
The Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, transfer funds, transfer from any Federal agency, or exchange lands and interests therein for the purposes of this subchapter. When an individual tract of land is only partly within the area designated, the Secretary may acquire the entire tract by any of the above methods to avoid the payment of severance costs. Land so acquired outside the designated area may be exchanged by the Secretary for non-Federal lands within such area, and any portion of the land not utilized for such exchanges may be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41.
(b)
Sale offers; hardship from delay; time and manner of purchase
In exercising his authority to acquire property under this subchapter, the Secretary shall give immediate and careful consideration to any offer made by an individual owning property within the lakeshore to sell such property to the Secretary. An individual owning property within the lakeshore may notify the Secretary that the continued ownership by such individual of that property would result in hardship to him, and the Secretary shall immediately consider such evidence and shall within one year following the submission of such notice, subject to the availability of funds, purchase such property offered for a price which does not exceed its fair market value.
(c)
State donations; transfer from Federal agency to administrative jurisdiction of Secretary
Any property or interests therein, owned by the State of Michigan or any political subdivisions thereof, may be acquired only by donation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any property owned by the United States on October 21, 1970, located within such area may, with the concurrence of the agency having custody thereof, be transferred without consideration to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for use by him in carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.
(d)
Initiation of condemnation proceedings subsequent to failure of Secretary to negotiate for purchase of property; certificate of compliance with negotiation procedure
With respect to that property which the Secretary is authorized to acquire by condemnation under the terms of this subchapter, the Secretary shall initiate no condemnation proceedings until after he has made every reasonable effort to acquire such property by negotiation and purchase. The certificate of the determination by the Secretary or his designated representative that there has been compliance with the provisions of this subsection and of subsection (b) of this section shall be prima facie evidence of such compliance.
(e)
Condemnation to acquire clear, marketable, and encumbrance-free title
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of condemnation as a means of acquiring a clear and marketable title, free of any and all encumbrances.
