§ 539m–3.
Pueblo rights and interests in the Area
(a)
In general
The Pueblo shall have the following rights and interests in the Area:
(1)
Free and unrestricted access to the Area for traditional or cultural uses, to the extent that those uses are not inconsistent with—
(A)
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) (including regulations promulgated under that Act) as in effect on February 20, 2003; or
(B)
applicable Federal wildlife protection laws as provided in section 539m–4(a)(2) of this title.
(2)
Perpetual preservation of the national forest and wilderness character of the Area under sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title.
(3)
Rights in the management of the Area as specified in section 539m–5 of this title, including—
(A)
the right to consent or withhold consent to a new use;
(B)
the right to consultation regarding a modified use;
(C)
the right to consultation regarding the management and preservation of the Area; and
(D)
the right to dispute resolution procedures.
(4)
Exclusive authority, in accordance with the customs and laws of the Pueblo, to administer access to the Area for traditional or cultural uses by members of the Pueblo and of other federally-recognized Indian tribes.
(5)
Such other rights and interests as are recognized in subsection (c) and sections 539m–2, 539m–5, 539m–6, and 539m–7 of this title.
(b)
Access
Except as provided in subsection (a)(4), access to and use of the Area for all other purposes shall continue to be administered by the Secretary.
(c)
Compensable interest
(1)
In general
If, by an Act of Congress enacted after February 20, 2003, Congress diminishes the national forest or wilderness designation of the Area by authorizing a use prohibited by section 539m–2(e) of this title in all or any portion of the Area, or denies the Pueblo access for any traditional or cultural use in all or any portion of the Area—
(A)
the United States shall compensate the Pueblo as if the Pueblo held a fee title interest in the affected portion of the Area and as though the United States had acquired such an interest by legislative exercise of the power of eminent domain; and
(B)
the restrictions of sections 539m–2(e) and 539m–4(a) of this title shall be disregarded in determining just compensation owed to the Pueblo.
(2)
Effect
Any compensation made to the Pueblo under paragraph (c) shall not affect the extinguishment of claims under section 539m–8 of this title.
