§ 7805.
Enforcement
(a)
Responsibility
This chapter, and any regulations or permits issued under this chapter, shall be enforced by the Secretary and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. Such Secretaries shall, and the head of any Federal or State agency that has entered into an agreement with either such Secretary under this section may (if the agreement so provides), authorize officers to enforce this chapter or any regulation promulgated under this chapter. Any officer so authorized may enforce this chapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though section 311 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1861) were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter.
(b)
Administration and enforcement
The Secretary and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall prevent any person from violating this chapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though sections 308 through 311 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1858 through 1861) were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter. Any person that violates this chapter shall be subject to the penalties, and entitled to the privileges and immunities, provided in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) in the same manner and by the same means as though sections 308 through 311 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 1858 through 1861) were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter.
(c)
District court jurisdiction
(1)
In general
The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction over any actions arising under this section.
(2)
Hawaii and Pacific insular areas
Notwithstanding subsection (b), for the purpose of this section, for Hawaii or any possession of the United States in the Pacific Ocean, the appropriate court is the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii, except that—
(A)
in the case of Guam and Wake Island, the appropriate court is the United States District Court for the District of Guam; and
(B)
in the case of the Northern Mariana Islands, the appropriate court is the United States District Court for the District of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(3)
Construction
Each violation shall be a separate offense and the offense is deemed to have been committed not only in the district where the violation first occurred, but also in any other district as authorized by law. Any offenses not committed in any district are subject to the venue provisions of section 3238 of title 18.
