§ 8571.
Good neighbor authority for recreation
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Authorized recreation services
The term “authorized recreation services” means similar and complementary recreation enhancement or improvement services carried out—
(A)
on Federal land, non-Federal land, or land owned by an Indian Tribe; and
(B)
by either the Secretary or a Governor, Indian Tribe, or county, as applicable, pursuant to a good neighbor agreement.
(2)
County
The term “county” means—
(A)
the appropriate executive official of an affected county; or
(B)
in any case in which multiple counties are affected, the appropriate executive official of a compact of the affected counties.
(3)
Federal land
The term “Federal land” means land that is—
(A)
owned and administered by the United States as a part of—
(i)
the National Forest System; or
(ii)
the National Park System; or
(B)
public lands (as defined in section 1702 of title 43).
(4)
Recreation enhancement or improvement services
The term “recreation enhancement or improvement services” means—
(A)
establishing, repairing, restoring, improving, relocating, constructing, or reconstructing new or existing—
(i)
trails or trailheads;
(ii)
campgrounds and camping areas;
(iii)
cabins;
(iv)
picnic areas or other day use areas;
(v)
shooting ranges;
(vi)
restroom or shower facilities;
(vii)
paved or permanent roads or parking areas that serve existing recreation facilities or areas;
(viii)
fishing piers, wildlife viewing platforms, docks, or other constructed features at a recreation site;
(ix)
boat landings;
(x)
hunting or fishing sites;
(xi)
infrastructure within ski areas; or
(xii)
visitor centers or other interpretative sites; and
(B)
activities that create, improve, or restore access to existing recreation facilities or areas.
(5)
Good neighbor agreement
The term “good neighbor agreement” means a cooperative agreement or contract (including a sole source contract) entered into between the Secretary and a Governor, Indian Tribe, or county, as applicable, to carry out authorized recreation services under this subchapter.
(6)
Governor
The term “Governor” means the Governor or any other appropriate executive official of an affected State or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(7)
Secretary concerned
The term “Secretary concerned” means—
(A)
the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System land; and
(B)
the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to National Park System land and public lands.
(b)
Good neighbor agreements for recreation
(1)
In general
The Secretary concerned may enter into a good neighbor agreement with a Governor, Indian Tribe, or county to carry out authorized recreation services in accordance with this subchapter.
(2)
Public availability
The Secretary concerned shall make each good neighbor agreement available to the public.
(3)
Financial and technical assistance
(A)
In general
The Secretary concerned may provide financial or technical assistance to a Governor, Indian Tribe, or county carrying out authorized recreation services.
(B)
Omitted
(4)
Retention of NEPA responsibilities
Any decision required to be made under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) with respect to any authorized recreation services to be provided under this section on Federal land shall not be delegated to a Governor, Indian Tribe, or county.
