§ 124m–1.
Departmental coordination on counter threats
(a)
Establishment
There is authorized in the Department, for a period of 2 years beginning after December 27, 2020, a Counter Threats Advisory Board (in this section referred to as the “Board”) which shall—
(1)
be composed of senior representatives of departmental operational components and headquarters elements; and
(2)
coordinate departmental intelligence activities and policy and information related to the mission and functions of the Department that counter threats.
(b)
Charter
There shall be a charter to govern the structure and mission of the Board, which shall—
(1)
direct the Board to focus on the current threat environment and the importance of aligning departmental activities to counter threats under the guidance of the Secretary; and
(2)
be reviewed and updated as appropriate.
(c)
Members
(1)
In general
The Board shall be composed of senior representatives of departmental operational components and headquarters elements.
(2)
Chair
The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis shall serve as the Chair of the Board.
(3)
Members
The Secretary shall appoint additional members of the Board from among the following:
(A)
The Transportation Security Administration.
(B)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(C)
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(D)
The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(E)
The Coast Guard.
(F)
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
(G)
The United States Secret Service.
(H)
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
(I)
The Office of Operations Coordination.
(J)
The Office of the General Counsel.
(K)
The Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
(L)
The Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans.
(M)
The Science and Technology Directorate.
(N)
The Office for State and Local Law Enforcement.
(O)
The Privacy Office.
(P)
The Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.
(Q)
Other departmental offices and programs as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(d)
Meetings
The Board shall—
(1)
meet on a regular basis to discuss intelligence and coordinate ongoing threat mitigation efforts and departmental activities, including coordination with other Federal, State, local, tribal, territorial, and private sector partners; and
(2)
make recommendations to the Secretary.
(e)
Terrorism alerts
The Board shall advise the Secretary on the issuance of terrorism alerts under section 124 of this title.
(f)
Prohibition on additional funds
No additional funds are authorized to carry out this section.
