§ 765.
Real property transactions
(a)
Reports to the Armed Services Committees
The Director of the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization, or his designee, may not enter into any of the following listed transactions by or for the use of that agency until after the expiration of thirty days from the date upon which a report of the facts concerning the proposed transaction is submitted to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives:
(1)
An acquisition of fee title to any real property, if the estimated price is more than $50,000.
(2)
A lease of any real property to the United States, if the estimated annual rental is more than $50,000.
(3)
A lease of real property owned by the United States, if the estimated annual rental is more than $50,000.
(4)
A transfer of real property owned by the United States to another Federal agency or to a State, if the estimated value is more than $50,000.
(5)
A report of excess real property owned by the United States to a disposal agency, if the estimated value is more than $50,000.
If a transaction covered by clause (1) or (2) is part of a project, the report must include a summarization of the general plan for that project, including an estimate of the total cost of the lands to be acquired or leases to be made.
(b)
Annual reports to Armed Services Committees
The Director of the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization shall report annually to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on transactions described in subsection (a) that involve an estimated value of more than $5,000 but not more than $50,000.
(c)
Real property governed by this section
This section applies only to real property in the States of the Union, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. It does not apply to real property for river and harbor projects or flood-control projects, or to leases of Government-owned real property for agricultural or grazing purposes.
(d)
Recital of compliance in instrument of conveyance as conclusive
A statement in an instrument of conveyance, including a lease, that the requirements of this section have been met, or that the conveyance is not subject to this section, is conclusive.
