§ 9026.
Temporary financing of short-time compensation payments in States with programs in law
(a)
Payments to States
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (3), there shall be paid to a State an amount equal to 100 percent of the amount of short-time compensation paid under a short-time compensation program (as defined in section 3306(v) of title 26) under the provisions of the State law.
(2)
Terms of payments
Payments made to a State under paragraph (1) shall be payable by way of reimbursement in such amounts as the Secretary estimates the State will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the Secretary finds that the Secretary’s estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the State. Such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the Secretary and the State agency of the State involved.
(3)
Limitations on payments
(A)
General payment limitations
No payments shall be made to a State under this section for short-time compensation paid to an individual by the State during a benefit year in excess of 26 times the amount of regular compensation (including dependents’ allowances) under the State law payable to such individual for a week of total unemployment.
(B)
Employer limitations
No payments shall be made to a State under this section for benefits paid to an individual by the State under a short-time compensation program if such individual is employed by the participating employer on a seasonal, temporary, or intermittent basis.
(b)
Applicability
Payments to a State under subsection (a) shall be available for weeks of unemployment—
(1)
beginning on or after March 27, 2020; and
(2)
ending on or before September 6, 2021.
(c)
New programs
Subject to subsection (b)(2), if at any point after March 27, 2020, the State enacts a State law providing for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program that meets the definition of such a program under section 3306(v) of title 26, the State shall be eligible for payments under this section after the effective date of such enactment.
(d)
Funding and certifications
(1)
Funding
There are appropriated, out of moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary for purposes of carrying out this section.
(2)
Certifications
The Secretary shall from time to time certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each State the sums payable to such State under this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Secretary
The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Labor.
(2)
State; State agency; State law
The terms “State”, “State agency”, and “State law” have the meanings given those terms in section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).
