§ 9502.
Minority Business Development Agency
(a)
In general
There is within the Department of Commerce the Minority Business Development Agency.
(b)
Under Secretary
(1)
Appointment and duties
The Agency shall be headed by the Under Secretary of Commerce for Minority Business Development, who shall—
(A)
be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;
(B)
except as otherwise expressly provided, be responsible for the administration of this chapter; and
(C)
report directly to the Secretary.
(2)
Compensation
(A)
In general
The Under Secretary shall be compensated at an annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314 of title 5.
(B)
Omitted
(3)
References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Director of the Agency shall be deemed to be a reference to the Under Secretary.
(c)
Report to Congress
Not later than 120 days after November 15, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that describes—
(1)
the organizational structure of the Agency;
(2)
the organizational position of the Agency within the Department of Commerce; and
(3)
a description of how the Agency shall function in relation to the operations carried out by each other component of the Department of Commerce.
(d)
Office of Business Centers
(1)
Establishment
There is established within the Agency the Office of Business Centers.
(2)
Director
The Office of Business Centers shall be administered by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Under Secretary.
(e)
Offices of the Agency
(1)
In general
In addition to the regional offices that the Under Secretary is required to establish under paragraph (2), the Under Secretary shall establish such other offices within the Agency as are necessary to carry out this chapter.
(2)
Regional offices
(A)
In general
In order to carry out this chapter, the Under Secretary shall establish a regional office of the Agency for each of the regions of the United States, as determined by the Under Secretary.
(B)
Duties
Each regional office established under subparagraph (A) shall expand the reach of the Agency and enable the Federal Government to better serve the needs of minority business enterprises in the region served by the office, including by—
(i)
understanding and participating in the business environment of that region;
(ii)
working with—
(I)
MBDA Business Centers that are located in that region;
(II)
resource and lending partners of other appropriate Federal agencies that are located in that region; and
(III)
Federal, State, and local procurement offices that are located in that region;
(iii)
being aware of business retention or expansion programs that are specific to that region;
(iv)
seeking out opportunities to collaborate with regional public and private programs that focus on minority business enterprises; and
(v)
promoting business continuity and preparedness.
