§ 506.
Inventory controls and systems
(a)
Activities of the Administrator of General Services.—
(1)
In general.—
Subject to paragraph (2), and after adequate advance notice to affected executive agencies, the Administrator of General Services may undertake the following activities as necessary to carry out functions under this chapter:
(A)
Surveys and reports.—
Survey and obtain executive agency reports on Federal Government property and property management practices.
(B)
Inventory levels.—
Cooperate with executive agencies to establish reasonable inventory levels for property stocked by them, and report any excessive inventory levels to Congress and to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(C)
Federal supply catalog system.—
Establish and maintain a uniform federal supply catalog system that is appropriate to identify and classify personal property under the control of federal agencies.
(D)
Standard purchase specifications and standard forms and procedures.—
Prescribe standard purchase specifications and standard forms and procedures (except forms and procedures that the Comptroller General prescribes by law) subject to regulations the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy prescribes under division B (except sections 1704 and 2303) of subtitle I of title 41.
(E)
Capitalization thresholds.—
Establish thresholds for acquisitions of personal property for which executive agencies shall capitalize the personal property.
(F)
Accountability thresholds.—
Notwithstanding section 121(b), for the management and accountability of personal property, establish thresholds for acquisitions of personal property for which executive agencies shall establish and maintain property records in a centralized system.
(2)
Special considerations regarding department of defense.—
(A)
In general.—
The Administrator of General Services shall carry out activities under paragraph (1) with due regard to the requirements of the Department of Defense, as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
(B)
Federal supply catalog system.—
In establishing and maintaining a uniform federal supply catalog system under paragraph (1)(C), the Administrator of General Services and the Secretary shall coordinate to avoid unnecessary duplication.
(b)
Activities of Federal Agencies.—
Each federal agency shall use the uniformed federal supply catalog system, the standard purchase specifications, and the standard forms and procedures established under subsection (a), except as the Administrator of General Services, considering efficiency, economy, or other interests of the Government, may otherwise provide.
(c)
Audit of Property Accounts.—
The Comptroller General shall audit all types of property accounts and transactions. Audits shall be conducted at the time and in the manner the Comptroller General decides and as far as practicable at the place where the property or records of the executive agencies are kept. Audits shall include an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls and audits, and a general audit of the discharge of accountability for Government-owned or controlled property, based on generally accepted principles of auditing.
